The plants are of the carbon-metabolism, sificate-shell type, like the
primitive animals. They spread out from the equator as far as they
could go before the baking polar summers killed them. They have normal
seasonal growth in the temperate zones and remain dormant and frozen
in the winter. At the poles there is no vegetation, not because of the
cold winter, but because of the hot summer. The winter winds

frequently blow over dead trees and roll them as far as the equatorial
seas. Other dead vegetation, because of the highly silicious water,
always gets petrified untess it is eaten first. What with the
quartz-speckled hides of the living vegetation and the solid quartz of
the dead, a forest is spectacular.

The silicone animals live on the plants. They chew them up, dehydrate
them, and convert their silicious outer bark and carbonaceous

interiors into silicones for themselves. When silicone tissue is
metabolized, the carbon and hydrogen go to CO_{2) and H_{2}0, which
are breathed out, while the silicone goes into SIO_{2}, which is
deposited as more teeth and armor. (Compare the terrestrial octopus,
which makes armor-plating out of calcium urate instead of excreting
urea oF uric acid.) The animals can, of course, eat each other too, or
make a meal of the small carbonaceous animals of the equatorial seas.

Further note that the animals cannot digest plants when they are cold.
They can eat them and store them, but the disposal of the solid water
and CO_{2} is too difficult a problem. When they warm up, the water in
the piants melts and can be disposed of, and things are simpler.
