CHAPTER 4, Loomings.

Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how jong precisely—having
litte or no money in my purse, and nothing articular to interest me

on shore, Hthought [would sail about alittle and see the watery part

ofthe world. itis a way Fhave of driving offthe spleen and

regulating the ciroulation. Whenever I ind myself growing grim about

the mouth; whenever itis a damp, drizzly November in my soul; whenever
Hind myself involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and

‘bringing up the rear of every funeral F meet, and especially whenever

‘my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
principle to prevent me from detiberaiely stepping into the street, and
methodically knocking people's hats off_then, t account i high time to
get to sea as soon as toan. This is my substitute for pistol and ball

With a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upon his sword: {
quietly take to the ship. There is nothing surprising in this. they

‘ut knew i, almost all men in their degree, some time or other,

cherish very neatly the same feelings towards the ocean with me,

‘There now is your insular city ofthe Manhatioes, belted round by
wharves as lodian isles by coral reefe—commerce surrounds it with her
surf Right and tefl the streets take you waterward. is extreme

downtown is the battery, where that noble mole is washed by waves, and
cooled by breezes, which a few hours previous were out of sight of

tend, Look at the crowds of water-gazers there.

Circumambulate the city of a dreamy Sabbath afternoon. Go from Cortears
Hook to Coenties Slip, and from thenoe, by Whitehall, northward, What

do you see?—Posted like silent sentinels all around the town, stand
thousands upon thousands of mortal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
teaning against the spiles; some seated upon the pler-heads; some
looking over the bulwarks of ships from China some high aloft in the
‘igging, as i'stiving to geta stil better seaward peep. But these

are ail landsmen; of week days pent up in fath and plaster—tied to
‘punters, nailed fo benches, clinched to desks. How then is this? Are

the green fields gone? What de they here?

But look! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing wil content them but the
extremest limit of the land; foitering under the shady lee of yonder
warehouses will not suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
as they possibly can without faiting in. And there they stand—mites of
them leagues. Intanders al, they come froma ianes and alleys, streets
and avenues—notth, east, south and west. Yet here they all unite. Teli
‘me, does the magnetic virtue of the needies of the compasses of all
those ships attract them thither?

‘Once more. Say you are in the country; in some high land offakes. Take
‘almost any path you please, and ten to one it carries you down in a
dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magic in
