fine, as it silently serpentines about the oarsmen before being brought
‘nto actual play—this is a thing which carties more of tue terror than

any other aspect of this dangerous affair. Gut why say more? AU men
Jive envetoped in whale-tines. All are born with halters round their
necks; but itis only when caught in the swif, sudden tum of death,

that mortals teatize the silent, subtle, ever-present penis of fife

And ifyou be a philosopher, though seated in the whale-boat, you would
not at heart feel one whit more of terror, than though seated before

‘your evening fire with a poker, and not a harpoon, by your side,

‘CHAPTER 61, Stubb Kills a Whale,

Ito Starbuck the appaniion of the Squid was a thing of portents, to
Queequeg itwas quite a different object.

“When you see him ‘quid,” sald the savage, honing his harpoon in the
‘bow of his hoisted boat, “then you quick see him ‘parm whale.”

‘The next day was exceedingly stil and sully, and with nothing special
to engage them, the Pequod’s crew could hardly resist the spell of
sleep induced by such a vacant sea For this part of the Indian Ocean
through which we then were voyaging Is not what whalemen call atively
ground; that is, it affords fewer glimpses of porpoises, dolphins,
ying-fish, and other vivacious denizens of more stiring waters, than
those off the Rio de ta Prats, or the in-shore ground off Peru

was my tum to stand a the foremast-head: and with my shoulders
feaning against the stackened royal shrouds, to and fro bidly swayed
in what seemed an enchanted ait. No resolution could withstand it ia
thal dreamy mood tosing all consciousness, at last my soul weat out of
mny body, though my body sil continued to sway as a pendulum wil,
fong after the power which first moved itis withdrawn

Ere forgetfulness altogether came over me, [had noticed that the
seamen at the main and mizzen-mast-heads were already drowsy. So that
at last ail three of us lifelessty swung from the spars, and for every

swing that we made there was a nod from below from the slumbering
haimsman. The waves, too, nodded their indofent crests; and across the
wide trance of the sea, east nodded to west, and the sun over all

Suddenty bubbles seemed bursting beneath my closed eyes; ike vices my
hands grasped the shrouds; some invisible, gracious agency preserved
‘me; with a shock teame back to life. And fof close under our lee, not

‘orty fathoms off, a gigantic Sperm Whale fay rolling in the water ke

the capsized hull ofa figate, his broad, glossy back, ofan Ethiopian

‘hue, glistening in the sun's rays fke a mirror. But tazily undulating

in the bough of the sea, and ever and anon tranquilly spouting his

vvapory Jet, the whale iooked like a portly burgher smoking his pipe of

a warm afternoon. But that pipe, poor whale, was thy last. As ifstruck
