‘enshrined within his cabin,

‘CHAPTER 22. Memry Christmas.

Atlenath, towards noon, upon the final dismissal of the ship's
figgers, and after the Pequod had been hauled out ftom the wharf, and
after the ever-thoughtful Chasity had come off in a whale-boat, with
her last gift—a night-cap for Stub, the second mate, her
brother-in-law, and a spare Bible for the steward—after al this, the

two Capiains, Peleg and Bildad, issued from the cabin, and turning to
the chief mate, Peleg said.

“Now, Mr. Starbuck, are you sure everything is ight? Captain Ahab is
ail ready—just spoke to him nothing more to be got from shore, eh?
Welt, call al hands, then. Muster ‘em aft here—biast ‘em

“No need of profane words, however great the hurry, Peleg.” sald
Bildad, “but away with thee, friend Starbuck, and do our bidding”

How nowt Here upon the very point of starting for the voyage. Captain
Peleg and Captain Bildad were going it wth a high hand on the
‘quartar-deck, just as ifthey were to te joint commanders at sea, a8

‘well as to all appearances in port. And, as for Capiain Ahab, no sign

of him was yet fo be seen; only, they said he was in the cabin, But

then, the idea was, that his presence was by no means necessary in
getting the shia under weigh, and steering her well out to sea. Indeed,

2s that was not at all his proper business, but the pilot's; and as he

was nat yet completely secovered—so thay said—therefore, Capiain Ahab
slayed below. And all this seemed natural enough: especially as in the
‘merchant service many captains never show themselves an deck for a
‘considerable time after heaving up the anchor, but temain over the

cabin table, having a farewell merry-making with their shore fiends,
before they quit the ship for good with the pitot

But there was not much chance to think over the matter, for Captain
Peleg was now all alive. He seemed to do most of the talking and
commanding, and not Bitdad,

“athere, ye sons of bachelors,” he cried, as the sailors lingered at
the main-mast. ‘Mr. Starbuck, drive ‘em aft!”

“Strike the tent there?'—was the next order. As Fhinted before, this,
whalebone marquee was never pitched except in port; and on board the
Pequod, for thinly years, the order to strike the tentwas well known

to be the next thing to heaving up the anchor.

*Maan the capstan! Blood and thunder!—jump!'—was the next command, and
the crew sprang for the handspikes,
