quictude, when behoiding the tranquif beauly and britiancy of the
‘ocean's skin, one forgets the liger heart that pants beneath it, and
would not witingly remember, that this velvet paw but conceals a

Temorseless fang.

‘These are the times, when in his whale-boat the rover softy feels 2
certain ial, confident, tand-tike feefing towards the sea; that he
regards it as so much flowery earth; and the distant ship reveating
only the tops of her masis, seems struggling forward, nat through high
sailing waves, but through the tall grass ofa rolting prairie: as when.
the westem emigrants’ horses only show their erected ears, white their
‘hidden bodies widely wade through the amazing verdure.

‘The tong-drawn virgin vales: the mild blue hil-sides; as over these
there steals the hush, the hum: you aimost swear that play-wearied
children tie sleeping in these solitudes, in some glad May-time, when
the Rowers of the woods are plucked. And aif this mixes with your most
‘mystic mood; so that fact and fancy. haltway meeting, intemenetrate,
‘and form one seamless whole.

Nor did such soothing scenes, however temporary, fail of at feast as
temporary an effecton Ahab. But f these secret golden keys did seem
to open in him his own secret golden treasuries, yet did his breath
‘upon them prove but tarnishing.

‘Oh, grassy glades! oh, ever vernal endless landscapes in the sou; in
ye,—though long parched by the dead drought af the earthy iife —in ye,
men yet may rol, ike young horses in new moming clover, and for some
few Reeting moments, feel the cool dew of the fife immortal on them.

Would to God these blessed caims would last. But the mingled, mingling
threads offife are woven by warp and woof. calms crossed by siorms, 2
storm for every calm. There is no steady unvetracing progress in this

life; we do not advance tough fixed gradations, and at the last one
pauise:—through infancy's unconscious spell, poyhood's thoughtless

faith, adolescence’ doubt the common doom}, then scepticism, then
ishelief resting at Jast in manhood's pandering repose of But

‘noe gone through, we trace the round again; and are infants, boys, and
‘men, and ifs etemally. Where fies the final harbor, whence we unmoor

‘no more? In what rapt ether sails the world, of which the weariest wit

never weary? Where is the foundiing's father hidden? Our souls are tke
those orphans whose unwedded mothers die in hearing them: the secret of
ur paternity ies in their grave, and we must there to feaen it

And that same day, too, gazing far down trom his boat's side into that
same golden sea, Starbuck lowly murmured: —

“Loveliness unfathomable, as ever lover saw in his young bride's
eyel—Tell me not of thy teeth-Hered sharks, and thy kidnapping
cannibal ways, Let faith oust fact: let fancy oust memory; Hook deep
dawn and do hetieve.”
