their old sire: sporting with the circle of singed locks which grew on
the marge of that burnt-out crater of his brain

Slowly crossing the deck from the souttle, Ahab jeaned over the side
and watched how his shadow in the water sank and sank to his gaze, the
‘more and the more that he strove to plerce the profundity. But the

lovely aromas in that enchanted air did at last seem to dispel, for a
‘moment, the cankerous thing in his soul. That glad, happy air, that
winsome sky, did at last stroke and earess him; the step-mother world,

0 fong cruel—forbidding—now threw affectionate arms round his stubborn
neck, and did seem ta joyousty sob over him, as over ane, that

awever wifal and erring, she could yet find it in her heart to save

‘and to bless, Fram beneath his slouched hat Ahab dropped a tear into

the sea; nor did ail the Pacific cantain such weatth as that one wee

drop.

Starbuck saw the old man; saw him, how he heavily leaned over the side;
‘and he seemed to hear in his own tue heart the measureless sobbing
that stole out ofthe centre of the serenity around. Carefil not to

touch him, or be noficed by him, he yet drew near to him, and stood

there

Ahab tumed
*Starbuck™
“sir?

“Oh, Starbuck! itis @ mld, elld wind, and a mild Joking sky. On such
a day—very much such 2 eweetness as this— struck my frst whale—a
boy-harpooneer of eighteen! Forty—fortyforty years aga!—ago! Forty
years of continual whating! forty years of privation, and peri, and
storm-time! forty years on the pitiless seal for ory years has Ahab
forsaken the peaceful tand, for forty years to make war on the horrors
ofthe deep! Aye and yes, Starbuck, out of those forty years thave not
spent three ashore. When | think of this fife thave fed; the

desolation of salitude it has been; the masoned, walled-iown of a
Captain's exclusiveness, which admits but small entrance to any
sympathy from the green county without—oh, weariness! heaviness!
‘Guines-coast slavery of solitary command—when I think ofall this,

only half suspected, not so keenly known to me hefore—and how for forty
yyeats [have fed upon dry salted fare—fit emblem of the dry nourishment
of my soilt_when the poorest landsman has had fresh fruit to his daily
‘hand, and broken the world's fresh bread to my mouldy erusts—away,
whole oceans away, from that young gir-wite | wedded past fy, and
sailed for Cape Hom the next day, leaving but one dent in my mariage
pitlow_—wife? wife?—rather a widow with her husband alive! Aye, |
‘widowed that poor git! when I married her, Starbuck, and then, the
madness, the frenzy, the boiling blood and the smoking brow, with,
‘which, for a thousand lowerings old Ahab has furiously, feamingly
