the ty-works, and replenishes them there, as mugs of ale ata vat. He
‘bums, too, the pursst of ol, in its unmanufactured, and, therefore,
unvitiated state; 2 fuld unknown to solar, tunar, or astral
contrivances ashore. itis sweet as early grass butter in April. He:
goes and hunis for his olf, so as to be sure ofits freshness and
genuineness, even as the traveller on the prairie hunts up his own
supper of game.

CHAPTER 8. Stowing Down and Clearing Up.

Aiready has it bean related how the great leviathan is afar off
descried from the mast-head: how he is chased over the watery moors,
and slaughtered in the valleys ofthe deep; how he is then towed
alongside and beheaded, and how (on the principle which entitied the
‘headsman of old to the garments in which the beheaded was killed} his
great padded surtout becomes the property of his executioner; how, In
due time, he is condemned to the pots, and, ike Shadrach, Meshach, and
Abednego, his spermaceti_ oil, and bone pass unscathed through the
‘ire;—but now it remains to conclude the last chapter of this part of

the description by rehearsing—singing, if maythe romantic proceeding
ofdecanting off his oil into the casks and striking them down into the

‘hold, where once again teviathan returns to his native profundities,

‘sliding along beneath the susface as before; but, alasi never more to

rise and blow.

White still wart, the of, ike hot punch, is received into the
six-bartel casks, and white, pertiaps, the ship is pitching and rolling
this way and that in the midnight sea, the enormous casks are slewed
round and headed over, end for end, and sometimes periiously scoot
across the slippery deck, fke so many land slides, tit at fast
‘mman-handied and stayed in their course; and all round the hoops, rap,
rap, go as many hammers as can play upon them, for now, _ex offcio__
every salloris a cooper.

Atlength, when the fast pint is casked, and all is cool, then the
‘reat haichways are unsealed, the bowels of the ship are thrown open,
‘and down go the casks to their nal rast in the sea, This done, the
hatches are replaced, and hermaticalty closed, like a closet waited up.

Inthe sperm fishery, this s perhaps one of the most remarkable
inoidents in ail the business of whaling. One day the planks stream

‘with freshets of blood and oil; on the sacred quarter-deck enormous,
‘masses of the whale's head are profanely plied: great rusty casks lie
about, asin a brewery yard; the smoke from the ty-works has besooled
all the bulwarks; the mariners go about suflused with unctuousness: the
‘entire ship seems great feviathan himself white on all hands the din

is deafening

uta day or two after, you look about you, and prick your ears in this
