‘constellation. A sailor takes a fancy to wear shark-bone earrings: the
carpenter drils his ears, Another has the toothache: the carpenter out
pincers, and clapping one hand upon his bench bids him be seated there
‘but the poor fellow unmanageably winces under the unconcluded
‘operation; whiting round the handle of his wooden vice, the carpenter
signs him to clap his jaw in that, fhe would have him draw the tooth.

“Thus, this carpenter was prepared at all points, and alike indifferent
and without respect in all, Teeth he accounted bits of vory; heads he
‘deemed but top-blocks, men themselves he lightly Held for capstans. But
while now upon so wide a field thue variously accomplished and with
such liveliness of experiness in him, too; ail this would seem to argue
some uncommon vivacity of intetigence. But not precisely so. For
nothing was this man more remarkable, than far a certain impersonal
stofidity as it were: impersonal, t say, for it so shaded off Into the.
surrounding infinite of things, that it seemed one with the general
stolidly discernible in the whole visible world; which while
pauselessiy active in uncounted modes, stil etemally holds its peace,
land ignores you, though you dig foundations for cathedrals. Yetwas
this haithoribte stolidity in him, involving, too, as it appeared, an
atl-ranilfying hearttesaness;—yet was itoddly dashed at times, with an
old, crutehike, antedituvian, wheezing humorousness, not unstreaked
now and then with a certain grizzled witness; such as might have
served to pass the lime during the midnight watch on the bearded
forecastie of Noah's ark. Was it that this old carpenter had been @
life-long wanderer, whose much rolling, tp and fro, not only had
gathered no mass; but what is more, had rubbed off whatever small
outward olingings might have orginally pertained to him? He was a
stript abstract; an unfractioned integral, uncompromised as a new-born
babe living without premeditated reference to this world or the next
‘You might almost say, that this strange uncompromisedness in him
involved a sort of uninteltigence, for in his numerous trades, he did

not seem to work so much by reason or by instinct, or simply because he
had been tutored to it, or by any intormixture ofall these, even or
uneven; but mesely by a kind of deaf and dumb, spontaneous literal
process. He was a pure manipulator; his brain, ifhe had ever had one,
must have early oozed along into the muscies of his fingers. He was
Jike one of those unreasoning but sill highly usefil,_muttum in
parvo_, Sheffield contrivances, assuming the exterior—though a tite
swelted—of a common pocket knife; but containing, not only blades of
vatlous sizes, but aiso sorew-drivers, cork-screws, tweezers, ants,
pens, rulers, nall-flers, countersinkers. So, iThis superiors wanted

to use the carpenter for a sorew-criver, all hey had to do was to open
that part ofhim, and the sorew was fast or iffor tweezers, take hie

up by the fegs, and there they were.

‘Yot, as previously hinted, this omnitooied, apen-and-shut carpenter,
was, after all,o mere machine of an automaton. iThe did not have a
‘common soul in him, he had a subtle something that somehow anomalously
id its duty. What that was, whether essence of quicksilver, ar a few
