{full-eighted vessel is caught by an appointed hand, and quickly
‘emptied into a targe tub. Then remounting aloft, it again goes through
the same round until the deep cistern will yield no more. Towards the
‘end, Tashtego has to ram his long pole harder and harder, and deeper
and deeper inta the Tun, until same twenty feet of the pole have gone
Bown,

Now, the people ofthe Pequod had been baling some time in this way;
several tubs had been filed with the fragrant sperm; when all at once

‘a queer accident happened. Whether it was that Tashtego, that wild
Indian, was so heediess and reckless as to let go for a moment his,
‘one-handed hold on the great cabled tackles suspending the head: or
whether the place where he stood was so treacherous and oozy. oF
whether the Evil One himeetfwould have it to fall out so, without

stating his particular reasons; how it was exactly, there is no telling

now; but, on a sudden, as the eightieth or ninetieth bucket came
suckingly up—my God! poor Tashtego—like the twin reciprocating bucket
in a venitable welt, dropped head-foremost down into this great Tun of
Heidetburgh, and with a horibie oily gurgting, went clean out of

sight

“Man overboard!” cried Daggoo, who amid the general constemation first
came to his senses. “Swing the bucket this way!" and putting one foot
{nto it, s0.as the better to secure his slippery hand-hold on the whip

Itself, the hoisters ran him high up to the top ofthe head, almost

before Tashtego could have reached its interior bottom. Meantime, there
was a terrible turnult, Looking over the side, they saw the before

lifeless head throbbing and heaving just below the surface of the sea,

as ifthat moment seized with come momentous idea; whereas it was only
the poor Indian unconsciously revealing by those struggles the perilous
depth fo which he had sunk.

At this instant, white Daggoo, on the summit of the head, was clearing
the whip—which had somehow got fout of the great cutting tackles—a
sharp cracking noise was heard, and to the unspeakable harror of al,
‘one ofthe two enormous hooks suspending the head tore out, and with &
vast vibration the enormous mass sideways swung, ill the drunk ship
secled and shook as iTsmitten by an iceberg. The one remaining hook,
‘upon whieh the entire strain now depended, seemed every instant io be
on the point of giving way, an event stil more likely from the violent
motions ofthe head,

“Come down, come down yelled the seamen to Daggoo, but with one hand
holding on to the heavy tackles, so that ifthe head should drop, he

would stil remain suspended; the negro having cleared the fou! tine,
rammed down the bucket into the now collapsed wall, meaning that the
buried harpooneer should grasp it, and so be hoisted out.

“in heaven's name, man,” cried Stubb, “are you ramming home a cartridge
there? Avast! How will that heip him: jamming that iran-bound bucket on
