the preceding chapter. Now some Nantucketers rather distrust this
historical story of Jonah and the whale. But then there were some

sceptical Greeks and Romans, who, standing out from the orthodox pagans
oftheir times, equally doubted the slory of Hercules and the whale,

‘and Arion and the dolphin; and yet their doubting those traditions did

not make those traditions one whit the less facts, for ail that.

‘One old Sag-Harbor whaleman’s chiefreason for questioning the Hebrew
story was this: He had one of those quaint old-fashioned Bibles,
embetlished with curious, unscientific plates; one of which represented
Jonah's whale with two spouts in fis head—a peculiarity onty true with
respect to a species of the Leviathan (the Right Whale, and the
varieties ofthat order), canceming which the Rshermen have this
saying, “A penny rot! would choke him’: his ewatlow is so very sma.
But, 10 this, Bishop Jebb's anticipative answer is ready. Itis not
necessary, hints the Bishop, that we consider Jonah as tombed in the
whale's belly, but as temporarily lodged in some part of his mouth. And
this s2eme reasonable enough in the good Bishop. For truly, the Right
Whale's mouth would accommodate 2 couple of whist-ables, and
comfortably seat all the players. Possibly, too, Jonah might have
‘ensconced himself in a hollow tooth; but, on second thoughts, the Right
Whale is toothless.

Another reason which Sag-Harbor (he went by that name} urped far his,
‘want of faith in this matier ofthe prophet, was something obscurely in
‘efesence to his incarcerated body and the whale’s gastric juices. But

this objection likewise fails to the ground, because a German exegetist
supposes that Jonah must have taken refuge in the Roaling body of a
_dead_whale—even as the French soldiers in the Russian campaign turned
their dead horses into tents, and orawied into them. Besides, it has

bean divined by other continental commentators, that when Jonah was
thrown overboard from the Joppa ship, he straightway effected his

‘escape to another vessel near by, some vessel with a whale fora
‘igure-head; and, Iwould add, possibly called “The Whale.” as some

eraft are nowadays christened the “Shark,” the “Gull” the “Eagle.” Nor

have there been wanting jeamed exegotisis who have opined thal he
whale mentioned in the book of Jonah merely meant a life-preserver—an
inflated bag of wind—which the endangered prophet swam to, and so was,
saved from a watery doom. Poor Sag-Harbor, therefore, seams worsted all
round, But he had sti another reason for his want of faith, twas,

this, iT remember right: Jonah was swallowed by the whale in the
Mediterranean Sea, and after three days he was vornited up somewhere
within three days’ journey of Nineveh, a city on the Tigris, very much

more than three days’ joumey across from the nearest point ofthe
Mediterranean coast. How is that?

But was there no other way for the whate to land the prophet within
that short distance of Nineveh? Yes. He might have carried him round by
the way of the Cape of Good Hope. But not io speak of the passage

throught the whole length of the Mediterranean, and another passage up
