the Pequod, as she heavily forged through the sea {for by this time it
blew very fresh), with her main-topsail aback: though, indeed, at mes
by the sudden onset of a large rolling wave, the boat would be pushed
some way ahead: but would be soon skifully brought to her proper
bearings again, Subject inthis, and other the tke interruptions now
‘and then, a conversation was sustained between the hwo parties; but at
intervals not without stil another interruption of a very different

sort

Pulling an oar in the Jeraboam’s boat, was a man ofa singular
appearance, even in that wild whaling life where individual

notabiliies make up aif tolalties, He was a small, short, youngish

‘man, sprinkled all over his face with freckles, and wearing redundant
yellow hair. A jong-skirted, cabalistically-cut coat ofa faded wainut

tinge enveloged him; the avertapping sleeves of which were rolled up on
his wrists. A deep, settied, fanatic delirium was in his eyes.

So soon as this figure had been fist desctied, Stubb had
‘exclaimed—That's he! that's hel—the long-logged scaramouch the
‘Town-Ho's company told us of" Slubb here alluded to a strange story

told ofthe Jeroboam, and a certain man among her crew, some time
previous when the Pequod spoke the Town-Ho. According to this account
‘and what was subsequently learned, it scemed that the scaramouch in
‘question had gained a wonderful ascendency over almost everybody in the
Jeroboam, His story was this:

He had been originally qurtured among the crazy society of Neskyeuna
Shakers, where he had been a great prophet; in their cracked, secret
‘meetings having several times desoended from heaven by the way ofa
‘rap-door, announcing the speedy opening of the seventh vial, which he
artied in his vest-pocket; but, which, instead of containing

gunpowder, was supposed to be charged with laudanum, A strange,
apostolic wivim having seized him, he had eft Neskyeuna for Nantucket,
where, with that cunning peculiar to craziness, he assumed a steady,
‘common-sense exterior, and offered himself as a green-hand candidate
{or the Jeroboam’'s whaling voyage. They engaged him, but straightway
lupon the ship's getting out of sight offand, his insanity broke out in

a freshet. He announced fimseifas the archangel Gabriel, and commanded
the capiain to jump overboard. He published his manifesto, whereby he
set himeetf forth as the deliverer of the isles of the sea and
vicar-general of al Oceanica. The unflinching earnestness with which
he declared these things;—the dark, dating play of his sleepless,
excited Imagination, and al the preternatural terrors of real

delirium, united to invest this Gabriel ia the minds of the majority of

the ignorant crew, with an atmosphese of sacredness. Moreover, they
were afiaid of him, As such a man, however, was not of much practical
uuse in the ship, especially as he refused to work except when he
pleased, the incredulous captain would fain have been rid of him: but
apprised that that individuat's intention was to fand hein the first
convenient port, the archangel forthwith opened ail bis seats and
