And so it turned out; Mr. Hosea Hussey being from home, but leaving
‘Mrs. Hussey entirely competent to attend to all his affairs. Upon
making known our desires for a supper and a bed, Mrs. Hussey,
postponing further scolding for the present, ushered us into a title
190M, and seating us ata table spread with the relies of a recently
concluded repast, tymed round to us and said “Clam or Cod?”

“What's that about Cods, ma'am? said [, with mach paliteness,
“Clam or Cod?” she repeated,

“A clam for supper? @ cold clam: is _that_what you mean, Mrs. Hussey?”
says |, “but that's a rather cold and clammy reception in the winter
time, ain'tit, Mrs. Hussey?”

But being in a great hurry to resume scolding the man in the purple
Shirt, who was waiting foritin the entry, and seeming to hear nothing
‘but the word “clam.” Mrs. Hussey hurried towasds an open door leading
to the kitchen, and bawting out “clam for two,” disappeared.

~Queequeg,” said |, “do you think that we can make outa supper for us
oth on one clam?”

However, a warm savory steam from the kitchen served to belie the
apparently cheeriess prospect before us. But when that smoking chowder
came in, the mystery was delightfully explained. Oh, sweet fiends!
hearken to me. twas made of small juicy clams, scarcely bigger than
hazel nuts, mixed with pounded ship biseuit, and salted pork cut up

{nto iltte Rakes; the whole enriched with butter, and plentiuly

seasoned with pepper and sait. Our appetites being sharpened by the
‘foaty voyage, and in particular, Queequeg seeing his favourite fishing
food before him, and the chowder being surpassingly exostient, we
despatched it with great expedition: when feaning back a moment and
bethinking me of Mrs. Hussey's clam and cod announcement, {thought £
would try a fitle experiment. Stepping to the kitchen door, tuttered

the word "cod" with great emphasis, and resumed my seat. In a few
moments the savoury steam came forth again, but with a different

flavor, and in good lime a fine cod-chowder was placed before us.

We resumed business; and white plying our spoons in the bowl, thinks |
to myself, }wonder now iT this here has any effect on the head? What's
‘hat stultfying saying about chowder-eaded peopte? “Bul took,
‘Queeques, ain't that a tive ee! in your bowl? Where's your harpoon?”

Fishiest ofall ishy places was the Try Pols, which well deserved its,
‘ame; for the pots there were always boiling chowders. Chowder for
breakiast, and chowder for dinner, and chowder for supper, fil you
‘began to look for fish-bones coming through your clothes. The area
before the house was paved with clam shells. Mrs. Hussey wore a
