further angie ofthe oom stands a dari-tooking den—the bar—a rude
atlempt at a right whale's head, Be that how it may, there stands the
vast arched bone of the whale’s jaw, so wide, a coach might almost
drive beneath it. Within are shabby shelves, ranged round with old
decanters, bottles, fasks; and in those jaws of swift destruction,

4ike another cursed Jonah (by which name indeed they called hion),
bustles a litte withered old man, who, for thelr money, dearly sets,

the sailors delirums and death

Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison. Though tue
eylinders without—within, the villanous green goggiing glasses
deceitfully tapered downwards to a cheating bottom. Paraiiel meridians.
rudely pecked into the glass, sutround these footpads' goblets. Ful to
_this_ mark, and your charge is but a penny; to _this_a penny more;

‘and so on to the full glass—the Cape Horn measure, which you may guip
down for a shitting,

Upon entering the place | found a number of young seamen gathered about
a lable, examining by a dim light divers specimens of _skrimshander_t
sought the landlord, and teling him | desired to be accommodated with,

a oom, received for answer that his house was fall—not a bed

‘unoccupied. “Bul avast,” he added, tapping his forehead, “you haint no
objections to sharing a harpooneer's blankel, have ye? !s'pose you are
goin’ a-whafin’, so you'd better get used to that sort of thing”

Hold him that tnever fiked to sleep two in a bed: thatif should
‘ever do so, it would depend upon who the harpooneer mightbe, and that
‘the (the tandiord) reatly had no other place for me, and the

harpooneer was not decidedty abjectionabte, why rather than wander
further about a strange town on so bitter a night, twould put up with

the haif of any decent man's blanket.

“Hhought so. Al right: take a seat. Supper?—you want supper?
Supper be ready directly”

| sat down an an ofd wooden settle, carved all over ike @ bench an the
Battery. Atone end a ruminating tar was stil further adorning it with
his jaok-knife, stooping over and diligently working away at the space
between his fegs. He was tying his hand at a ship under full sal, but
‘ne didn't make much headway, [thought.

Attast some four or five of us were summoned to our meal in an
adjoining room. twas cold as Ioeland—no fire at atl—the tandiord said
bhe couldn't afford i Nothing but two dismal tallow candies, each in 3
winding sheet. We were fain to button up our monkey jackets, and hold
to our fips cups of scalding tea with our haif frozen fingers. But the

fare was af the most substantial kind—nat only meat and potatoes, but
dumplings; good heavenst dumplings for supper! One young fellow in a
‘green box coat, addressed himselfto these dumplings in a most direful
