fines of kings in Gothic genealogies; those same woods harboring wild
Afric beasts of prey, and silken areatures whose exported furs give

sobes to Tartar Emperors, they mirror the paved capitals of Buffalo and
‘Cleveland, as well as Winnebago vilages: they float alike the

fulltigged merchant ship, the armed eruiser of the Sate, the steamer,
and the beech canoe: they are swept by Borean and dismasting blasts as.
direful as any that lash the salted wave; they know what shipwrecks

2ae, for out of sight of land, however inland, they have drawned full
‘many 2 midnight ship with all ts shrieking crew. Thus, gentlemen,
though an inlander, Steelkitt was wild-ooean born, and witd-ocean
nurtured: as much ofan audacious mariner as any. And for Radney,
though in his infancy he may have laid him down on the lone Nantucket
‘beach, to nurse at his matemal sea; though in afterlife he had fong
folowed our austere Atlantic and your contemplative Pacific; yet was

‘he quite as vengeful and full of social quarrel as the backwoods.
seaman, fresh from the latitudes of buck-horn handled Bowie-knives. Yet
was this Nantucketer a man with some good-hearted traits; and this
Lakeman, a mariner, who though a sort of devil indeed, might yet by
inflexible firmness, only tempered by that common decency of human
recognition which is the meanest slave's right, thus treated, this

Steeikit had long been relained harmiess and docile. At ail events, he
fad proved so thus far, but Radney was doomed and made mad, and
Steeikitbut, gentlemen, you shall hear.

“twas not more than a day or two al the furthest after pointing her
prow for her istand haven, that the Town-Ho's leak seemed again
increasing, but only so as to sequire an hour or more at the pumps.
every day. You must know that ina settled and civilized ocean like our
Atlantic, for example. some skippers think tie of pumping their

whole way across it, though of sti, sleepy night, should the

officer of the deck happen to forget his duty in thal respect, the
probability would be that he and his shipmates would never again
‘remember it, on account of al hands gently subsiding to the bottom.
Nor in the solitary and savage seas far from you to the westward,
gentlemen, is it altogether unusual for ships fo keep clanging at their
‘pump-handies in full chorus even for a voyage of considerable length
that is, ifittie along a tolerably acceasibie coast, or if any other
reasonable retreats afforded them. Itis only when a leaky vessel is
in some very out of the way part of those waters, some really tandless
‘atitude, that her captain begins to fee! a litle anxious,

hhuch this way had it been with the Town-Ho; so when her leak was found
gaining once mare, there was in truth some small cancer manifested by
several of her company; especially by Radney the mate. He commanded the
upper sails to be weil hoisted, sheeted home anew, and every way

expanded to the breeze. Now this Radney, Fsuppose, was as ite of a
coward, and ase inctined to any sort of nervous apprehensiveness
touching his own person as any fearless, unthinking creature on land or

‘on sea that you can conveniently imagine, gentlemen. Therefore when he
betrayed this soficitude about the safety ofthe ship, some ofthe
