Physiognomically regarded, the Sperm Whale is an anomalous creature. He
hhas no proper nose. And since the nose is the central and most
conspicuous ofthe features; and since it perhaps most modifies and
finally controls their combined expression; hence it would seem that

its entire absence, as an extemal appendage, must very targely affect

the countenance of the whale. For as in fandscape gardening, a spice,
cupola, monument, of tower of some sort, is deemed almost indispensable
to the completion of the scene: so no face can be physiognomicatly in
keeping without the elevated open-work betity of the nose. Dash the

nose from Phidias's marble Jove, and what a sorry remainder!
Nevertheless, Leviathan is of so mighty a magnitude, all his

proportions are so stately, that the same deficiency which in the

sculptured Jove were hideous, in him is no blemish at al, Nay, itis

‘an added grandeur. A nose to the whale would have been impertinent. As
‘on your physiognomical voyage you sail found his vast head in your
{olly-boat, your noble conceptions of him are never insulted by the
efleotion that he has a nose to be pulled. A pestilent conoslt, which

80 offen will insist upon obtruding even when beholding the mightiest
royal beadie on his throne.

In some particulars, perhaps the mast imposing physiognomical view to
be had of the Sperm Whale, is that ofthe Tull font ofhis head. This,
aspects sublime.

In thought, a fine human brow is fike the East when troubled with the
‘morning. n the repose of the pasture, the curled brow ofthe bull has

a touch of the grand in it, Pushing heavy cannon up mountain defies,
the elephant's brow is majestic. Husian er animal, the mystical brow is
as that great golden seal affixed by the German emperors to their
decrees. f signifies —"God: done this day by my hand.” But in most
creatures, nay in man himself, very often the brow is but a mere stip

of alpine and iying along the snow line. Few are the foreheads which
{ike Shakespeare's or Melanethor’s rise so high, and descend so tow,
that he eyes themselves seem clear, eternal, ideless mountain lakes
‘and all above them in the forehead's wrinkles, you seem to track the
antiered thoughts descending there to drink, as the Highland hunters
‘rack the snow prints ofthe deer. Butin the great Sperm Whale, this
‘nigh and mighty god-tike dignity inherent in the brow is so immensely
amplified, that gazing on i, in that full Font view, you feel the

Deity and the dread powers more foreibly than in beholding any other
object in tiving nature. For you see no ane point precisely; not one
distinet feature is revealed; no nose, eyes, ears, or mouth; no fabs;

the has none, proper, nothing but that ane broad firmament of a
forehead, pleated with riddles; dumbly lowering with the doom of boats,
and ships, and men. Nor, in profite, does this wondrous brow diminish
though that way viewed its grandeur does not domineer upon you so. in
profile, you plainly perceive that horizontal, semi-crescentic

depression in the forehead's middie, which, in man, is Lavater's mark
ofgenius,

 

 
