time to make tong ones. Nor were the oarsmen quite Idle, though their
wonted duty was now altogether dispensed with. They chiefly attended to
the shouting part of the business. “Out of the way, Commodore cried
one, to a great dromedary that of a sudden rose bodily to the surface,

‘and for an instant threatened to swamp us. “Hard down with your tal
there? cried a second to another, which, close to our gunwaie, seemed
calmly cooling himself with his own fan-tike extremity

Atl whaieboats carry certain curious contrivances, originally invented
by the Nantucket indians, called druggs. Two thick squares of wood of
‘equal size are stoully clenched together, so thal they cross each

other's grain at ight angles: a jine of considerable length is then
attached to the middie of this block, and the other end af the tine

being foaped, it can in 2 moment he fastened to a harpoon. this

chiefly among gallied whales that this drugg Is used. For then, more
whales are clase round you than you can possibly chase atone time. But
sperm whales are not every day encountered; while you may, then, you
‘must kil all you can. And ifyou cannot kil them all at once, you

must wing them, so that they can be afterwards killed at your leisure.
Hence itis, that at times like these the druga, comes into

requisition. Our boat was furnished with three of ther The fist and
second were successfully darted, and we saw the whales staggeringly
running of, fettered by the enormous sidelong resistance of the towing
drug. They were ctamiped iike malefactors with the chain and ball. But
upon flinging the third, in the act of tossing overboard the clumsy
wooden block, it caught under one of the seats of the boat, and in an
instant tore it out and cartied it away, dropping the oarsman in the
boat's bottom as the seat sid from under hire, On both sides the sea
came in at the wounded planks, but we stuffed two of three drawers and
shirts in, and so stopped the Jeaks for the tare.

Ithad been next to impossible to dart these drugged-hampoons, were it
not that as we advanced into the herd, our whale's way greatty
diminished; moreover, that as we went stil further and further from

the circumference af commotion, the direful disorders seamed waning. So
that when at last the jerking harpoon drew out, and the towing whale
sideways vanished: then, with the tapering foree of his parting
‘momentum, we glided between two whales into the innermost heart ofthe
shoal, as:jffrom some mountain torrent we had slid into a serene

valley lake. Here the storms in the roasing glens between the outermost
whales, were heard but not felt. In this central expanse the sea

presented that smooth satin-tike surface, called a sleek, produced by

the subtle moisture thrown off by the whale in his more quiet moods

‘Yes, we were now in that enchanted calm which they say lurks at the
heart of every commotion. And stil in the distracted distance we

beheld the tumults of the outer coneentre circles, and saw successive
pods of whales, eight or ten in each, swiflly going round and round,

like muttipfied spans of horses in a ring; and so closely shoulder to
shoulder, that a Titanic circus-rider might easily have over-arched the
‘middie ones, and so have gone round on their backs. Owing to the
