sound as though uncorking a botte—“tke him hie —

“Corkscrew!” cried Ahab, “aye, Queequeg, the harpoons lie ail twisted
and wrenched in him; aye, Baggoo, his spout is a big one, like a whole
shock of wheat, and white as a pile of our Nantucket wool after the
great annual sheep-shearing, aye, Tashtego, and he fan-tails tke a
Split}ib in a squall. Death and devils! men, itis Moby Dick ye have
seen—Moby Dick—Moby Dick?

“Captain Ahab,” said Starbuck, who, with Stubb and Flask, had thus far
been eyeing his superior with increasing surprise, but at last seemed
struck with a thought which somewhat explained ail the wonder. “Captain
Ahab, !have heard of Moby Dick—but it was not Moby Dick thal took off
thy tea?”

“Who told thee that?” cried Ahab; then pausing, “Aye, Starbuck: aye, my
hearties all ound; twas Moby Dick that dismasted me; Moby Diek that
brought me to this dead stump [stand on now. Aye, aye,” he shouted

with a temifio, joud, animal sob, tke that of a heart-stricken moose:

“Aye, aye! itwas that accursed white whale that razed me; made a poor
pegging tubber of me for ever and a day?” Then tossing both arms, with
measureless imprecalians he shouted out: “Aye, aye! and I'll chase him
found Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maeistrom,
‘and sound perdition’s flames before !give him up. And this is what ye
have shipped for, ment to chase that white whale on both sides of fand,
and over af! sides of earth, til he spouts black blood and rots fin

‘out. What say ye, men, will ye splice hands on it, now? f think ye do

look brave.”

“Aye, aye!” shouted the harpooneers and seamen, running closerto the
excited old man: “A sharp eye for the while whale; a sharp lance for
Moby Dick!”

“God bless ye," he seemed to half sab and half shout. “God bless ye,
amen. Steward! go draw the great measure of grog. But what's this long
fave about, Mr. Starbuck: wil thou not chase the white whale? art not
‘game for Moby Dick?”

“fam game for his crooked jaw, and for the jaws of Death too, Captain,
Ahab. ifitfaitly comes in the way of the business we follow, but |

came here to hunt whales, not my commander's vengeance. How many
barrels will thy vengeance yield thee even ifthou gettest It, Captain
Ahab? it will not felch thee much in our Nantucket market”

“Nantucket market! Hoot! But come cinser, Starbuck: thou requirest a
Site lower layer. money's to be the measures, man, and the
accountants have computed their great counting-house the globe, by
gitdling itwith guineas, one to every three parts of an inch; then,

fet me tell thee, that my vengeance wil felch a great premium _herel_~
