whales, their probably atlaining the age of a century and more,
therefore at any ane period of ime, several distinct adult generations
‘must be contemporary. And what that is, we may soon gain some idea of
by imagining al the grave-yards, cemeteries, and family vaults of
cseation yielding up the tive bodies ofall the men, women, and

children who were alive seventy-five years ago, and adding this
‘punttess host to the present human population of the globe

Wherefore, for all these things, we account the whale immortal in his
species, however perishable in his individuality, He ewam the seas.
‘before the continents broke water; he once swam over the site ofthe
Tuileries, and Windsor Castle, and the Kremlin. In Noah's flood he.
despised Noah's Ark, and if ever the world is to be again flooded, like
the Netherlands, to kil off its rats, then the eternal whale wil

stil survive, and rearing upon the topmost crest of the equatorial
food, spout his fothed defiance to the skies.

CHAPTER 108, Ahab's Leg.

‘The precipitating manner in which Captain Ahab had quilted the Samuel
Enderby of London, had nat been unattended with some smmatl violence to
‘bis own person. He had fighted with such enesgy upon a thwart of his

boat that his ivory leg had received a haif-splintering shook, And when
afer gaining his own deck, and his own pivot-hote there, he so
vehemently wheeled round with an urgent command to the steersman {it
was, as ever, something about his not steering inflexibly enough),

then, the already shaken ivory received such an additional twist and
wrench, that though It stil eemained entire, and to all appearances

fusty, yet Ahab did nat deem itentirely trustworthy,

And, indeed, it seemed smal! matter for wonder, that for aif his
pervading, mad recklessness, Ahab did at limes give careful heed to the
condition of that dead bone upon which he partly stood. For it fad nat
been very long prior fo the Pequod's sailing from Nantucket, that he

‘had been found one night lying prone upon the ground, and insensible;

by some unknown, and seemingly inexplicable, unimaginable casualty, his
ivory Hind having been so violenty displaced, that ithad siake-wise

smitten, and all but pierced his groin: nor was itwithout extreme

iffcutty that the agonizing wound was entirely cured

Nor, atthe time, had it failed to enter his menomaniac mind, that all
the anguish of that then present suffering was but the direct issue of
a former woe; and he too plainly seemed to see, that as the most
poisonous reptile of the marsh perpetuates his kind as inevitably as
the sweetest songsier of the grove; so, equally with every felicity

al miserable events do naturally beget their like. Yea, more than
‘equally, thought Ahab; since both the ancestry and posterity of Grief
go further than the ancestry and posterity of Joy. For, not to hint of
this: that tis an inference from certain canonic teachings, that
