LE5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistibute this
electronic work, of any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.* with
‘otive links or immediate access to the full terms ofthe Project
‘Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.8. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up. nonproprietary oF proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form, However, you provide access
to of distribute copies of Project Guienberg-tm work in a format

other than “Piain Vanilla ASCIP or other format used in the official
version posted an the official Project Guienberg-tm web site
{www.gulenterg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee oF expense to
the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means af
obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain

Vanilla ASCIP or other farm. Any allemate format must include the

{ull Project Gutenberg-im Lioenge as specified in paragraph 1.E.1

 

1.E7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying oF distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
‘uniess you comply with paragraph ¢.£.8 or 1.69.

4.E.B. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to oF distributing Project Gulenberg-m electronic works
provided that

- You pay a royally fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from the
‘use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method you
already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed to the
owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has agreed to
‘donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days
following each date on which you prepare {or are legally required to
prepare) your periodic tax retums. Royalty payments should be clearly
‘marked as such and sent io the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation at the address specified in Section 4, “Ioformation about
‘donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation”

~ You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
you in writing (or by e-mail} within 30 days of receipt that sine does
ot agree to the terms of the full Project Gulenberg-tm License. You
‘must require such a user to return oF destroy all copies of the works
possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and ail
‘access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-im works,

~ You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
‘money paid for a work or a replacement copy, ifa defect in the
‘electonic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
receipt of the work,
