up of mongrel renegades, and casiaways, and cannibais—morally enfeebled
also, by the incompetence of mere unaided virtue or right mindedness in
Starbuck, the invulnerable jotlty of indifference and recklessness in
Stubb, and the pervading mediocrity in Flask, Such a crew, so

pficered, seemed specially picked and packed by some infernal fatalty
to help him to his monomania revenge. How itwas that they so
aboundingly responded to the old man's ire—by what evil magic their
souls were possessed, that al times his hate seemed almost theirs; he
White Whale as much their insufferable foe as his; how ail this came to
‘be—what the White Whale was to them, of how to their unconscious
understandings, also, in some dim, unsuspected way, he might have
seemed the gliding great demon of the seas of ife,—al this to

explain, would be ta dive deeper than Ishmael can go. The subterranean
miner that works in us all, how can ane tell whither feads his shaft by

the ever shifting, muffled sound ofhis pick? Who does not fee! the
inesistible arm drag? What skiff in tow ofa sevanty-four can stand

stl? For one, Igave myseif up to the abandonment ofthe time and the
piace; but while yet all a-rush to encounter the whale, could see

‘naught in that brute bul the deadtiest it

CHAPTER 42. The Whiteness ofthe Whale.

What the white whale was to Ahab, has been hinted: what, at times, he
was to me, as yet remains unsaid

Aside from those more obvious considerations touching Maby Dick, which
‘ould not but occasionally awaken in any man’s soul some alarm, there
‘was another thought, or rather vague, nameless horror concerning him,
which at times by its intensity completely overpowered ail the rest

and yet so mystical and welt nigh ineffable was it, that | almost

despair of putting itin a comprehensible form. ftwas the whiteness of

the whale that above al things appaited me. But how can thope to
explain myeeif here; and yet, in some dim, random way, expiain myself?
must, else ail these chapters might be naught

Though in many naturat objects, whiteness refiningly enhances beauty,
as ifimparting some special virtue of is own, as in marbles,

Japonicas, and pearls, and though various nations have In some way
fecognised a certain royal preeminenee in this hue; even the barbaric,
‘grand old kings of Pepu placing the lie “Lord of the White Elephants”
‘above all their other magniloquent ascriptions of dominion; and the
‘modem kings of Siam unfurting the same snaw-white quadruped in the
royal standard; and the Hanoverian flag bearing the one figure ofa
snow-white charger; and the great Austrian Empire, Czesarian, heir to
‘overiording Rome, having for the imperial colour the same imperial hue;
and though this pre-eminence in it appties to the human race itself,
‘iving the white man idea! mastership over every dusky tibe; and
though, besides, ail this, whiteness has been even made significantof
gladness, for among the Romans a white stone marked a joyful day; and
