inte slabs, and piled away iike jolsis for building houses.

‘CHAPTER 75. The Right Whale's Head_Contrasted View.

‘Crossing the deck, tet us now have a geod fong look at the Right
Whale's head,

Asin general shape the noble Sperm Whale's head may be compared to a
Roman war-chariot (especially in font, where itis so broadly

rounded), so, at a broad view, the Right Whaie’s head bears a rather,
inelegant resemblance to a gigantic gatiot-toed shoe. Two hundred

years ago an old Dutch voyager ikened its shape to that ofa

shoemaker's fast, And in this same last or shoe, that ald woman ofthe
ursery tale, with the swarming braod, might very comfortably be

Jodged, she and ail her progeny.

But as you come nearerto this great head it begins to assume different
aspects, according to your point of view. ifyou sland on its surmeait

‘and look at these two F-shaped spoutholes, you would take the whole
‘head for an enormous base-viol, and these spiracies, the aperiures in
its sounding-board. Then, again, iTyou fix your eye upon this strange,
‘crested, comb-iike incrustation an the top of the mass—this green,
barnacied thing, which the Greenlanders call the “crown,” and the
Southera fishers the “bannef of the Right Whale; fixing your eyes
solely on this, you would take the head for the unk of some huge oat,
with a bird's nest in is crotch. At any rate, when you waich those

live crabs that nestie here on this bonnet, such an idea will be almost
sure to oocur to you; untess, Indeed, your fancy has been fixed by the
technical term “crown” also bestowed upon it, in which case you wil
take great interest in thinking how this mighty monster is actually a
diademed king ofthe sea, whose green crown has been put together for
‘him in this marvellous manner. But this whale be a king, he is 2

very sully fooking fellow to grace a diadem. Look at that hanging iower
lipt what a huge sulk and poutis there! a sutk and pout, by

carpenter's measurement, about twenty feet Jong and five feet deep; 2
sulk and pout that will yield you some 500 gations of oil and more,

A.great pity, now, that this unfortunate whale should be hare-lipped,
‘The Resure is about 8 foot across, Probably the mother during an
‘mmportant interval was sailing down the Peruvian coast, when
easthquakes caused the beach to gape. Over this lip, as over a slippery
threshold, we now slide into the mouth, Upon my word were Fat
Mackinaw, | should take this to be the inside of an indian wigwam. Good
Lord! is this the road that Jonah went? The roofis about twelve feet,
‘nigh, and runs to a pretty sharp angie, as ifthere were a regular
‘dge-pole there; while these ribbed, arched, hairy sides, present us
with those wondrous, half vertical, scimetar-shaped slats of whalebone,
say three hundred on a side, which depending from the upper part ofthe
‘head or erown bone, form those Venetian blinds which have elsewhere
