unastonished eyes Fedallah gazed, and crossed his arms; but the
tiger-yeliow crew were tumbling over each other's heads to gain the
uttermost stem.

And now, while both elastic gunwales were springing in and oul, as the
whale dalied with the doomed craft in this devilish way; and from his
body being submerged benealh the boat, he could not be darted at fom.
the bows, for the bows were almost inside of him, as it were; and while
the offer boats involuntarily paused, as before a quick erisis

‘impossible to withstand, then it was that monomaniac Ahab, furious with
{Nis tantatizing vicinity of tis foe, which placed him all alive and
helpless in the very jaws he hated: frenzied with all this, he seized

the long bone with fis naked hands, and wildly strove to wrench it rom,
its gripe. As now he thus vainly strove, the iaw slipped from him, the

frail gunwales bentin, collapsed, and snapped, as both jaws, ike an
enormous shears, sliding further af, bit the eraft completely in

twain, and locked themselves fast again in the sea, midway between the
two floating wrecks. These floated aside, the broken ends draaping, the
orew at the stem-wreck clinging to the gunwales, and striving to hold
fast to the oars to lash them across.

Atthat protuding moment, ere the boat was yet snapped, Ahab, the frst
to perceive the whale's intent, by the crafty upraising of his head, a
‘movement that lnosed his hold far the time; at that moment his hand had
made one final effort to push the boat out ofthe bite. But only

slipping further into the whale's mouth, and titing over sideways as,

it sipped, the boat had shaken off his hold on the jaw; spilled him

out oft, as he leaned to the push; and sa he fet! fal-faced upon the

Ripplingly withdrawing from his prey, Moby Dick now lay at a tite
distance, vertically thrusting his oblong while head up and down in the
billows: and a the same time slowly revolving his whole spindted body,
so that when his vast wrinkled forehead rose—some twenty or more feet
out of the waterthe now rising swells, with all their confluent waves,
dazzlingly broke against it, vindictively tossing their shivered spray

sbif higher into the air.* So, in a gale, the but half baffled Chane!
billows only recoil from the base ofthe Eddystone, triumphantly to
overteap iis summit with their scud

“This motion is peculiar to the sperm whale. tkreceives its
designation (pitchpoting} from ifs being likened to that preliminary
up-and-down poise of the whale-lance, in the exercise catied
pilchpoling, previously described. By this motion the whale must best
‘and most comprehensively view whatever objects may be encircling Rim,

[But soon resuming his horizontal attitude, Maby Dick swam ewify round
‘and ound the wrecked crew; sideways chuming the water in his vengeful
wake, as itlashing hierself up to stil another and more deadly

assault. The sight ofthe splintered boat seemed to madden him, as the
