fostomn-tooking fishermen, mildly eyeing us as they passed, sald not
‘one word to our own fook-outs, while the quarter deck hail was being
heard from below.

“Ship ahoy! Have ye seen the White Whale?”

But as the strange captain, leaning over the patlid bulwarks, was in
the act of putting his trumpet to his mouth, it somehow fell from his

‘hand into the sea: and the wind now sising amain, he in vain strove to
‘make himself heard without it, Meantime his ship was sill increasing

the distance between, While in various silent ways the seamen of the
Pequod were evincing their observance of this ominaus incident at the
first mere mention ofthe White Whale's name to another ship, Ahab for

‘2 moment paused: it aimast seemed as though he would have lowered 8
boat to board the stranger, had not the threatening wind forbade. But
taking advantage of his windward position, he again seized his tumpet,
and knowing by her asnect that the stranger vessel was a Nantuckeler
‘and shortly bound home, he toudly hailed—“Ahoy there! This is the
Pequod, bound round the world! Tell them to address ail future letters

to the Pacific ocean! and this time three years, iftam notat home,

tell them to address them to —"

 

Atthat moment the hwo wakes were faitly crossed, and instantly, then,
{m accordance with thelr singular ways, shoals of small harmiess fish,
thal for some days before had been placidly swimming by our side,
darted away with what seemed shuddering fins, and ranged themselves
{ore and aft with the stranger's Ranks. Though in the course of his,
continual vayagings Ahab must often before have noticed a similar
sight, yet, to any manomaniac man, the veriest trifle eapriciously

carry meanings.

“Swim away from me, de ye?" murmured Ahab, gazing over into the water.
‘There seemed butte in the words, but the tone conveyed more of

deep heipless sadness than the insane old man had ever before evinced.
But turning to the steersman, who thus far had been holding the ship in
the wind to diminish her headway, he cried out in his old fon

voice,—"Up helm! Keep her off round the wosid”

Round the world! There is much in that sound to inspire proud feelings:
but whereto does a that circurmnavigation conduct? Only through
numberless peris to the very point whence we started, where those that
we left behind secure, were all the time before us,

Were this world an endiess plain, and by sailing eastward we could for
‘ever reach new distances, and discover sights more sweet and strange
than any Cyclades or Islands of King Solomon, then there were promise
in the voyage. But in pursuit of those far mysteries we dream of, oF in
tormented chase of that demon phantom that, some time or other, swims.
before ali human hearts; while chasing such over this round globe, they
either lead us on in trarren mazes or midway leave us wheimed,
