been taken from the stranded fish; and these are about as correct as a
drawing ofa wrecked ship, with broken back, would correctly represent
the noble animal iiseifin ail its undashed pride of hull and spars.
‘Though elephants have stood for their full-iengtns, the living

Leviathan has never yet fairy Noated himseif for his poctrait. The

Jiving whale, in his Tull majesty and significance, is onty to be seen

at sea in unfathomable waters; and afloat the vast bulk of him is out

of sight, ike a launched fine-o-battle ship; and out ofthat element

itis a thing etemally impossible for mortal man to hoist him bodily

into the air, 60 as to preserve all his mighty swells and undulations,
And, not to speak of the highly presumable difference of contour
between a young sucking whale and a full-grown Platonian Leviathan,
yel, even in the case of one of those young sucking whales hoisted to a
ship's deck, such is then the outlandish, eetike, lmbered, varying
shape of him, that his precise expression the devil himself could not
eaich,

But it may be fancied, that from the naked skeleton of the stranded
whale, accurate hints may be derived touching his true form. Not at

al, For itis one of the more ourious things about this Leviathan,

that his skeleton gives very litte idea of his general shape. Though
Jeremy Bentham's skeleton, which hangs for candelabra in the library of
one of his executors, correctly conveys the idea of a burty-browed
utiarian old genteman, with all Jeremy's other teading personal
characteristics, yet nothing of this kind could be inferred from any
Jeviathan's articulated bones. in fact, as the great Hunter says, the

mere skeleton of the whale bears the same relation to the fully

invested and padded animal as the insect does to the chrysails that so
roundingly envelopes it. This peculianiy is strikingly evinced in the

‘head, as in some part of this book will be incidentally shown. itis,

also very curiously displayed in the side fin, the bones of which

aimost exactly anower to the bones ofthe human hand, minus only the
thumb. This fin has four regular bone-fingers, the index, middle, ring,

and lie finger. But all these are permanently lodged in their Reshy
‘eovering, as the human fingers in an artificial covering. “However
recklessly the whale may sometimes serve us,” said humorous Stubb one
day, “he can never be tuly said to handie us without mittens”

For all these reasons, then, any way you may look ati, you must needs
conclude that the great Leviathan is that one creature in the world
which must remain unpainted to the fast. True, one portrait may hit the
‘mark much nearer than another, but none can hit it with any very
considerable degree of exaciness. So there is no earthly way of finding
out previsely what the whale really iooks like. And the only mode in
which you can derive even a tolerable idea of his fiving contour, is by
going a whaling yourseif, but by so doing, you run no smal risk of
‘being elemally stove and sunk by him. Wherefore, Itseems to me you
had best not be too fastidious in your curiosity touching this

Leviathan,
