“See you this?” and withdrawing it fom the folds that had hidden it,
he held up a white arm of sperm whale bone, terminating in a wooden
head like @ mallet

“Man my boat” eried Ahab, impeluously, and tossing about the oars near
him —'Stand by to lower?”

ness than a minute, without quitting his litte craft, he and his
crew were dropped to the water, and were soon alongside of the
stranger. But here a curious difficulty presented itself. In the

excitement of the moment, Ahab had forgotten that since the toss of his
Jeg he had never once stepped on board of any vessel at sea but his
‘own, and then it was aways by an ingenious and very handy mechanical
contrivance peculiar to the Pequod, and a thing not to be rigged and
shipped in any other vessel at 8 moment's warning, Now, itis no very
easy matter for anybody—except those who are atmost hourly used to it,
{ike whalemen—to clamber up a ship's side from a boat on the open sea;
for the great swells now lift the boat high up towards the bulwarks,

and then instantaneously drop ithaif way down to the keison. So,
deprived of one eg, and the strange ship of course being altogether
unsuppiied with the kindly invention, Ahab now found himself abjectly
seduced to a clumsy tandsman again; hopelessly eyeing the uncertain
‘changeful height he could hardly Hape to attain.

thas before been hinted, perhaps, that every tittle untoward
circumstance that befell him, and which indirectly sprang from his
lwekless mishap, almost invariably irritated or exasperated Ahab. And

In the present instance, ail this was heightened by the sight of the

‘wo officers of the strange ship, leaning over the side, by the
perpendicular ladder of naited cleets there, and swinging towards him a
ait of tastefully-omamented man-ropes; for at frst hey did not seem

fo bethink them that 2 one-leaged man must be too much af a cripple to
use their sea bannisters, But this awkwardness only fasted a minute,
because the slrange captain, observing at a glance haw affairs stood,
cried out, “see, I see!—avast heaving there! Jump, boys, and swing
over the cutting-tackie~

‘As good luck would have it, hey had had a whale alangside a day or two
previous, and the great tackles were stil aiofl, and the massive

curved blubber-hook, now clean and dry, was stil attached to the end
‘This was quickly towered to Ahab, who at once comprehending it all,

slid his solitary high Into the curve of the hook {it was tke siting

in the fluke of an anchor, or the erotch of an apple tree}, and then

giving the word, held himself fast, and at the same time also helped to
hoist his own weight, by pulling hand-over-hand upon one of the running
parts ofthe tackle. Soon he was carefully swung inside the high
‘bulwarks, and gently tanded upon the capstan head. With his ivory arm
‘ranidy thrust forth in welcome, the other captain advanced, and Ahab,
putting out his ivory eg, and crossing the ivory arm (Hike two

sword-fish blades) cried out in his walrus way, “Aye, aye, hearty! let
