“Aye. cried Stubb, “but sea-coal ashes—mind ye that, Mr.
Starbuck—sea-coal, not your common charcoal. Well, well; Hheard Ahab:
‘utter, Here some one thrusts these cards into these ofd hands of
eaine; swears that I must play them, and no others.’ And damn me, Ahab,
‘but thou actest right: five in the game, and die in i

CHAPTER 149, The Candles,

‘Warmest climes but nurse the eruellest fangs: the tiger of Bengal
crouches in epiced groves of ceaseless verdure. Skies the most
eftulgent but basket the deadilest thunders: gorgeous Cuba knows
tornadoes that never swept tame northem lands. So, too, itis, thatia
these resplendent Japanese seas the mariner encounters the direst of
ail storms, the Typhoon. It wit sometimes burst rom out that

cloudless sky. like an exploding bomb upon a dazed and sleepy town.

‘Towards evening ofthat day, the Pequod was tom other canvas, and
‘bare-poled was ieftto Right a Typhoon which had struck her directly
‘ahead. When darkness came on, sky and sea toared and split with the
thunder, and blazed with the fightning, that showed the disabfed masts
fluttering here and there with the rags which the fist fury of the
tempest had feft for lis after sport.

Holding by @ shroud, Starbuck was standing on the quarter-deck: at
every Rash of he lightning glancing aloft to see what additional
disaster might have befatien the intricate hamper there; while Stubb
and Flask were directing the men in the higher hoisting and firmer
lashing of the boats. But ail their pains seemed naught. Though filed
to the very top afthe cranes, the windward quarter boat (Ahab's} did
not escape. A grest rolling sea, dashing high up against the reeting
ship's high teetering side, stove in the boat's bottom al the stera,

and feftit again, all dripping through like a sieve.

“Bad work, bad work! Mr, Starbuck, said Stubb, cegarding the wreck,
“but the sea will have its way. Stubb, for one, can't ight it You

see, Mr. Starbuck, a wave has such a great long start before itteaps,
ail round the world it runs, and then comes the spring! But as for me,
ail the start Fhave to meet i, is just across the deck here. But

‘never mind; i's all n fan: so the old song says"—{_eings_.}

‘Oh! jolly is the gate, And a joker is the whale, A’ lourishie’ his
tail Such a funny. sporty, gamy, jesty, joky, hoky-poky lad, is the
‘Ocean, oh!

‘The scud alla flyin’, That's his fp onfy foamin’; When he stirs in
the spicin’,— Such a funny, sporty. gamy. iesty, joky, hoky-poky tad,
is the Ocean, oht
