‘The whale-tine is only two-thirds of an inch in thickness. At frst
sight, you would not think itso strong as itreatly is. By experiment

dis one and fity yarns will each suspend a weight of one hundred and
twenty pounds; so that the whole rope will bear a strain nearly equal

to three tons. in fength, the comman sperm whale-tine measures
something over two hundred fathoms. Towards the stem of the boat itis,
spirally colled away in the tub, not ike the worm-pipe of a stil

though, but so as to form one round, cheese-shaped mass of densely
bedded “sheaves,” or ayers of concentric spiralizations, without any
‘otiow but the “heart of minute vertical tube formed at the axis of

the cheese. As the least tangle or kink in the oolling would, in|

running out, infallibly take somebody's arm, teg, or entire body of,

the utmost precaution is used in stowing the line in its tub. Some
‘arpoaneers will cansume almost an entire moming in this business,
carrying the fine high aloft and then reeving it downwards through a
block towards the tub, g0 as in the act af coiling to fee it from all
possible wrinkles and twists,

In the English boats two tubs are used Instead of one; the same tine
‘being continuously colled in both tubs. There is some advantage in
this, because these twin-tubs being so small they fit more readily into
the boat, and de not strain it so much; whereas, the American tub,
neatly three feet in diameter and of proportionate depth, makes a
rather bulky freight for a craft whose planks are but one haifnch in
thickness; for he bottom of the whale-boat is tike critical oe, which
will bear Up 2 considerable distributed weight, but not very much of a
concentrated one. When the painted canvas cover is clapped on the
American line-tub, the boat looks as ifit were pulling off with 2
prodigious great wedding-cake to present to the whales.

Both ends of the tine are exposed: the tower end terminating in an
‘eye-sptice oF joop coming up from the bottom against the side ofthe

ub, and hanging over its edge completely disengaged from everything
‘This arrangement of the tower end is necessary on twa accounts, First

In order to facitiate the fastening to it of an additonal tine from a
‘neighboring boat, in case the stricken whale should sound so deep as to
threaten to carry off he entire tine originally attached to the

‘harpoon. In these instances, the whale of course is shifted tke a mug
fale, as it were, from the one boat to the other. though the frst

boat always hovers at hand to assist its consort. Second: This
arrangementis indispensable for common safely's sake: for were the
Jower end of the line in any way allached to the boat, and were the
whale then to run the fine out to the end almost in a single, smoking
‘minute as he sometimes does, he would not stop there, for the deomed
boat would infatlibly be dragged down after him into the profundity of

the sea; and in that case no town-crier would ever find her again,

Before lowering the boat for the chase, the upper end of the fine is
taken aft from the tub, and passing round the toggerhead there, is
again cartied forward the entire length of the boat, resting crosswise
