circumstance, coupied with his ambiguous, halF-hinting, half-reveating,
shrouded sor of talk, now begat in me all kinds of vague wonderments
and half-apprehensions, and all sonnected with the Pequod: and Captain
Ahab: and the teq he had lost; and the Cape Hom fit and the sitver
calabash; and what Capisin Peleg had said of him, when Heft the ship
the day previous; and the prediction of the squaw Tistig, and the

voyage we had bound ourselves to sail; and a hundred other shadowy
things.

Iwas resolved to satisty mysetf whether this ragged Elijah was really
‘dogging us or not, and with that intent crossed the way with Queaqueg,
and on that side of it retraced our steps. But Eljah passed on,

without seeming to notice us. This relieved me, and once more, and
‘inaily as it seemed to me, F pronounced him in my heart, a humbug,

‘CHAPTER 20. All Asti.

A day or two passed, and there was great activity aboard the Pequod.
Not only were the old sails being mended, but new sails were coming on
board, and bolts of canvas, and coils of rigging: in short, everything
‘betokened that the ship's preparations were hurrying to a close.

Captain Peleg seldom or never went ashore. but sat in his wigwam,
keeping a sharp look-out upon the hands: Biidad did ail the purchasing
and providing at the stores; and the men employed in the hold and on

the rigging were working till iong after night-fatt

‘On the day following Queequeg's signing the articles, word was given at
ail the inns where the ship's company were stopping, thal their chests
‘must be on board before night, for there was ne telting how soon the
vessel might be safing. So Queequeg and I got down our raps,
resolving, however, o sleep ashore til the last. Butt seems they

always give very tong notice in these cases, and the ship did not sail

{or several days. But ro wonder, there was a good deai to be done, and
there Is no telling how many things to be thought of, before the Pequod
was fully equipped.

Every one knows what a multitude of things—beds, sauce-pans, knives and
‘orks, shovels and tongs, napkins, aut-ctackers, and what not, are
indispensable to the business of housekeeping. lust so with whaling,
which necessitates a three-years’ housekeeping upon the wide ocean, far
from all grocers, costermongers, doctors, bakers, and bankers. And

though this also holds true of merchant vessels, yet not by any means.

to the same extent as with whalemen, For besides the great length of

the whaling voyage, the numerous articles peculiar to the prosecution
ofthe fishery, and the impossibility of replacing them at the remote
harbors usually frequented, it must be remembered, that ofall ships,
‘hating vessels are the most exposed to accidents ofa! kinds, and
‘especially to the destruction and toss of the very things upon which

the success of the voyage most depends. Hence, the spare beats, spare
