heavy chest to his boarding house. Not to seem ignorant about the
thing—though in tty he was entirely so, concerning the precise way in
which to manage the barrov-—Queequeg puls his chest upon it lashes it
fast, and then shoulders the barrow and marches up the whart. “Why.”
said |, “Queequeg, you might have known better than that, one would
think. Didn't the people faugh?”

Upon this, he told me another story. The people ofhis island of
Rokovoko, it seems, at their wedding feasts express the fragrant water

‘of young cocoanults into a jarge stained calabash fike a punchbow, and
{his punchbowl always forms the great central ornament on the braided
mat where the feasts held. Now a ceriain grand merchant ship once.
touched at Rokovako, and its commander—from all accounts, a very
stately punetitious gentleman, at feast for a sea captain—this

commander was invited to the wedding feast of Queequeg’s sister, a
pretty young princess just turned of ten. Well, when aif the wedding

‘guests were assembled at the bride's hamboo cottage, this Captain
‘marches in, and being assigned the post of honor, placed himself over
against the punchbow!, and between the High Priest and his majesty the
King, Queequeg's father. Grace being said,—for those people have their
grace as well as we—though Queequeg old me that untike us, who at such
times took downwards to our platters, they, on the contrary, copying

the ducks, glance upwards to the great Giver of all feasts Grace, |

‘say, being said, the High Priest opens the banquet by the immemorial
‘ceremony of the island, that is, dipping his consecrated and

consecrating fingers into the bowl before the blessed beverage

circulates. Seeing himiseif placed next the Priest, and noting the

ceremony, and thinking hieseit—being Captain of a ship—as having plain
precedence over a mere isiand King, especially in the King’s own
house—the Capiain coolly proceeds to wash his hands in the
punchbow;—taking it F suppase for a huge finger-giass. “Now sald
‘Queequeg, ‘what you tink now?—Didn't our people faugh?”

Atlast, passage paid, and luggage safe, we stood on board the
‘schooner. Hoisting sail, it aided down the Acushnet river. On one

side, New Bedford rose in terranes of streets, their ice-covered trees,

ai glittering in the clear, cold air. Huge hills and mountains of

casks on casks were piled upon her wharves, and side by side the
world-wandering whale ships lay silent and safely moored at last; while
from others came a sound of carpenters and coopers, with blended noises
offites and forges to melt the pitch, all betokening that new cruises

were on the siatt that one most perilous and long voyage ended, only
begins a second: and a second ended, only begine a third, and so on,

for ever and for aye. Such is the endlessness, yea, the intolerableness.
ofall earthly effort

Gaining the more open water, the bracing breeze waxed fresh; the litle
Moss tossed the quick foam from her bows, as a young colt his
snortings. How Fsnuffed that Tartar airl—how I spumed that tumpike
‘sasth!—that common highway all over dented with the marks of slavish
