stumps of harpoons are frequently found in the dead bodies of captured
whales, with the Resh perfectly heated around them, and no prominence
of any kind to denote their piace; therefore, there must needs have

‘been some other unknown feason in the present case fully to account for
the ulceration alluded to, But stil mare curious was the fact ofa
tanos-head of stone being found in him, not far from the buried iron,

the Resh perfectly firm about it. Who had darted that stone ance? And
when? ttmight have been darted by some Nor West Indian long before
America was discovered,

What other marvels might have been rummaged out of this monstrous
cabinet there is no telling. But a sudden stop was put to further
discoveries, by the ship's being unprecedentediy dragged over sideways
to the sea, owing to the body's immensely increasing tendency to sink,
However, Starbuck, who had the ordering of affairs, hung on to itto

{he fast; hung on to itso resolutely, indeed, that when at length the

shin would have been capsized, (stil persisting in focking arms with

the body; then, when the command was given to break clear from it, such
was the immovable strain upon the timber-heads to which the
fluke-chains and cables were fastened, that it was impossible to cast
them off. Meantime everything in the Pequod was aslant. To crass to the
other side of the deck was like walking up the steep gabied roofof a
house. The ship groaned and gasped. Many ofthe ivory intayings of her
bulwarks and cabins were started from their places, by the unnatural
dislocation. in vain handspikes and crows were brought lo bear upon the
immovabie ftuke-chains, to pry them adrift from the tmberneads; and so
tow had the whale now settled that the submerged ends could notbe at
2a approached, while every mament whole tons of ponderosity seemed
added to the sinking butk, and the ship seemed an the paint of going

“Hold on, held on, won't ye?” cried Stubb to the body, “don'tbe in
such a devil ofa hurry 1 sink! By thunders, men, we must do something
01 go for it. No use prying there: avast, t say with your handspikes,

and Tua one of ye for a prayer book and a per-knife, and cut the big
chains”

“Knife? Aye, aye," eried Queequeg, and seizing the carpenter's heavy
hatchet, he feaned out ofa posthole, and see! to iron, began slashing
at the largest fuke-chains, Buta few strokes, full of sparks, were
given, when the exceeding strain effected the rest. With a ternific,

snap, every fastening went adrift the ship righted, the carcase sank.

Now, this occasional inevitable sinking of the recently killed Sperm
Whale 1s a very curious thing: nor has any fisherman yet adequately
accounted for it. Usually the dead Sperm Whale floats with great
buoyancy, with its side or belly considerably elevated above the

surfaca, ithe onty whales that thus sank were old, meagre, and
broken-heariad creatures, their pads of lard diminished and ail their
bones heavy and rheumatic; then you might with some reason assert that
