‘Cetacean History as Marius of Sylla to the classic scholar.

ut this is not all, New Zealand Tom and Don Miguel, after at various
times creating great havoc among the boats of different vessels, were
nally gone in quest of, systematically hunted oul, chased and killed

by valiant whaling captains, who heaved up their anchors with that
‘express object as much in view, as in seting out through the
Narragansett Woods, Captain Butler of old had it in his mind to capture
that notorious murderous savage Annawon, the headmost warrior of the
Indian King Philip.

| do not know where Fan find a better place than just here, to make
‘mention of one or two ather things, which to me seem important, as in
printed form establishing in all respects the reasonableness of the
whole story ofthe White Whale, more especially the catastrophe. For
{his is one of those disheartening instances where truth requires full

as much bolstering as error. 80 ignorant are most landsmen of some of
the plainest and most palpable wonders of the world, that without some
‘hints touching the plain fac, historical and otherwise, of the

fishery, they might scout at Moby Dick as a monstrous fable, or sti
worse and more detestable, a hideous and intolerable allegory.

First: Though most men have some vague fitting ideas of the general
pefils ofthe grand fishery, yet they have nothing like a fixed, vivid
onception af thase perils, and the frequency with which they reour.

‘One reason perhaps'is, that not one in fifty ofthe actual disasters.

and deaths by casualties in the fishery, ever finds a public record at
home, however transient and immediately forgotten that record. Da you
suppose that that poor fetlow there, who this moment pemhaps caught by
the whale-tine off the coast of New Guinea, is being carried down to

the bottom of the sea by the sounding teviathan—do you suppose that
that poor fetlow's name will appear in the newspaper obituary you will
read to-morrow at your breakfast? No: because the mails are very
regular between here and New Guinea. in fact, did you ever hear what
‘might be calied regular news direct or indirect from New Guinea? Yet
tell you that upon one particular voyage which Imade to the Pacific,
among many others we spoke thiry different ships, every one of which
had had a death by a whale, some of them more than one, and three that
‘had each lost a hoat's crew. For God's sake, be economical with your
iamps and candies? not a gaiton you bum, but at least one drop of

man's biood was spilled fori

Secondly: People ashore have indeed some indefinite idea that a whale
is. an enormous creature of enormous power: but Ihave ever found that
‘when narrating to them some specific example of this two-fold
enommousness, they have significantly complimented me upon ay
facetiousness; when, Ideciare upon my soul, Ihad no more idea of
‘being facetious than Moses, when he wrote the history of the plagues of
Enyot.
