But how? Genius in the Sperm Whale? Has the Sperm Whate ever written a
book, spoken a speech? No, his great genius is declared in his doing
nothing particular to prove It itis moreoves dectared in his

pyramidical silence. And this reminds me that had the great Sperm Whale
been known to the young Orient Word, he would have been deified by
their chitd-magian thoughts. They deified the crocodile ofthe Nile,
because the crocodile is tongueless; and the Sperm Whale has no tongue,
‘or at feast itis so exceedingly small, as to be incapable of

protrusion. if hereafter any highly cultured, poetical nation shatt

ure back to their birth-right, the merry May-day gods of old; and

sivingly enthrone them again in the now egotistical sky; In the now
unhaunted hil then be sure, exsited to Jove's high seat, the great

Sperm Whate shail lord i.

Champottion deciphered the wrinkled granite hieroglyphies. But there is
‘89 Champolion to decipher the Egypt of every man's and every being’s,
face. Physiognamy, ite every other human science. is but a passing

fabie. then, Sir Witiant Jones, who read in thirty languages, could

not read the simplest peasant's face in its profoundar and more subtie
meanings, how may uniettered tshmaal hope to read the awful Chaldee of
the Sperm Whate's brow? I but put that brow before you. Read itif you

‘CHAPTER 80. The Nut.

tthe Sperm Whaie be physiognomically a Sphinx, to the phrenoiogist
‘his brain seems that geometrical circle which its impossible to
square.

In the full-grown ereature the skull will measure atleast twenty feet
in tenath. Unhinge the tower jaw, and the side view of this skull is as

the side of a moderately inclined plane resting throughout on a level

base. But in ife—as we have elsowhere seen—this inclined plane is
angularly filed up, and aimost squared by the enosmous superincumbent
‘mass of the junk and sperm. At the high end the skull forms a crater to

bed that part of the mass; while under the tong floor of this orater—in
another cavity seldom exceeding ten inches in tength and as many in
depth—reposes the mere handful of this monster's brain. The brain is at
east twenly feet from his apparent forehead in fife; itis hidden away
behind its vast outworks,tike the innermost citadel within the

amplified fortffcations of Quebec. So like a choice caskets it

secreted In him, that Ihave known some whalemen who peremptorily deny
thal the Sperm Whale has any other brain than that palpable semblance

of one formed by the cubic-yards of his sperm magazine. Lying in

strange folds, courses, and eonvolutions, to their apprehensions, it

seems more in keeping with the idea af his general might to regard that
‘mystic part athim as the seat of his intelligence.
