far down from within the very heart ofthis spiked Hots! de Cluny where
we here sland—however grand and wonderful, now quit itand take your
way, ye nobler, sadder souls, o those vast Roman haiis of Thermes;
where far beneath the fantastic towers of man's upper earth, his toot

of grandeur, his whole awful essence sits in bearded state; an antique
buried beneath antiquities, and throned on torsoest So with a broken
‘tone, the great gods mock that captive king: so like a Caryatid, he

patient sits, upholding on his frozen brow the piled entablatures of

‘ages. Wind ye down there, ye prouder, sadder souls! question that

proud, sad king! A family likeness! aye, he did beget ye, ye young

‘exiled royalties; and from your grim sire only will the old

Stale-seeret come.

Now, in bis heart, Ahab had some glimpse ofthis, namely: all my means
are sane, ray motive and my object mad. Yet without power to kil, oF
change, or shun the fact, he fkewise knew that fo mankind he did ong
dissemble; in some sort, did stil, But that thing ofhis dissembling

was only subject to his peroeptbbility, not to his will determinate,
Nevertheless, so wail did he suoceed in that diesembilng, that when
with ivory leg he stepned ashore at ast, no Nantucketer thought him
otherwise than but naturally grieved, and that to the quick, with the
terrible casually which had overtaken him,

‘The report of his undeniable detirium at sea was likewise popularly
ascribed to a kindred cause. And so too. ail the added moodiness which
always afterwards, to the very day of sailing in the Pequod on the
present voyage, sal brooding on his brow. Nor is it so very unfikely,

thal far from distrusting his finess for another whating voyage, on
account of such dark symptoms, the calculating peaple ofthat prudent
{ste were inclined to harbor the conceit, that for those very reasons.

he was all the better quatified and set on edge, for a pursuit so full

of rage and wildness as the bloody hunt of whales. Gnawed within and
scorched without, with the infied, unrelenting fangs of some incurable
idea; such an one, cauld he be found, would seem the very man to dart
‘is ton and Sif his tance against the most appalling of ail brutes.

(Or, iffor any reason thought to be corporeatiy incapacitated for that,

yel such an one would seem superiallvely competent o cheer and how! on
‘bis underlings to the attack, But de ail this as it may, certain tis,

that with the mad secret of his unabated rage bolted up and keyed in
‘him, Ahab had purposely sailed upon the present voyage with the one
‘only and all-engrossing object of hunting the White Whale. Had any ane
ofhis old acquaintances on shore but haif dreamed of what was lurking
in him then, how soon would their aghast and righteous souls have
wrenched the ship from such a fiendish mant They were benton
profilable cruises, the profit be counted down in dollars from the

‘mint. He was intent on an audacious, immitigable, and supematural
revenge.

Here, then, was this grey-headed, ungodly old man, chasing with curses.
2 Job's whale round the word, at the head ofa crew, too, chiefly made
