“He smiles his chest” whispered Stubb, ‘what's that for? methinks it
sings most vast, but hotiow.”

*Vengeance on a dumb brute!" eried Starbuck. “that simply smote thee
‘rom blindest instinct! Madness! To be enraged with a dumb thing,
‘Captain Ahab, seems blasphemous.”

“Hark ye yet again—the little tower layer. All visible objects, man,
are but as pasteboard masks, But in each event—in the living act, the
undoubled deed—there, some unknown but sil reasoning thing puts forth
the mouldings ofits features from behind the unreasoning mask. rman
will strike, strike through the mask! How oan the prisoner reach

outside except by thrusting through the wall? To me, the white whale is
that wall, shoved near to me, Sometimes | think there's naught heyond.
But 'tis enough. He tasks me; he heaps me; I see in him outrageous
strength, with an inscrutable malice sinewing it. That inscrutable

thing is chiefly what thate; and be the while whale agent, or be the
white whale principal, twill wreak that hate upon him. Talk not to me

of blasphemy, man; Fd strike the sun ifit insulted me. For could the

sun do that, then could Ido the other, since there is ever a sort of

{air play herein, jealousy presiding over afl creations. But nat my
master, nian, is even that fair play. Who's over me? Truth hath 10
‘eonfines. Take offthine eye! more intolerable than fends’ glarings is

‘2 doltish stare! So, sor thou reddenest and patest; my heat has metted
thee to anger-giow. But ook ye, Starbuck, what is said in heat, that
thing unsays iiseif. There are men from whom warm words are small
indignity. ! meant not o incense thee. Let itgo. Look! see yonder
Turkish cheeks of spotted tawn—tiving, breathing pictures painted by
the sun, The Pagan leopards—the unrecking and unworshipaing things,
that five; and seek, and give na feasons for the torrid fife they feet!

‘The crew, man, the crew! Are they not one and at! with Ahab. inthis
‘matter ofthe whale? See Slubb! he laughs! See yonder Chilian! he
snotis to think of i. Stand up amid the general hurricane, thy one

tost sapling cannot, Starbuck! And what is if? Reckon it. Tis but to

help strike a fin; no wondrous feat for Starbuck, What is it more? From
this one poor hunt, then, the best lance out of all Nantucket, surely,

he will nat hang back, when every foremast-hand has clutched a
whetstone? Ah! consirainings seize thee; I see! the biflow tits thee!
Speak, but speak!—Aye, aye! thy silence, then, _that_voices thee.
(Aside_} Something shot from my dilated nostrils, he has inhaled itn
‘Ris lungs. Starauck now is mine; cannot oppose me now, without
rebeltion>

“God keep me!—keep us all? murmured Starbuck, towly,

But in his joy at the enchanted, tacit acquiescence of the mate, Ahab
did not hear his foreboding invocation; nor yet the low taugh from the
‘hold; nor yet the presaging vibrations of the winds in the cordage; nor
yet the hollow flap of the sails against the masts, as for a moment
their hearis sank in. For again Starbuck's downcast eyes lighted up
