“Dost know nothing at a about whating, Idare say—eh?,

“Nothing, Sir, but Ihave no doubt F shall soon eam. Ive been
several voyages in the merchant service, and | think that—"

 

“Merchant service be damned. Taik not that ingo to me. Dost see that
teg?—Hil take that leg away from thy stem, ifever thou talkest of

the marchant service fo me again. Marchant service indeed? | suppose
‘now ye fee! considerable proud of having served in those marchant
ships. But fukest man, what makes thee want a go a whaling, eh? it
tooks alittle suspicious, don'tit, eh?—Hast not been a pirate, hast
thou?—Didst not rob thy fast Capiain, didst thou? Dost not think of
‘murdering the officers when thou gettest fo sea”

F protested my innocence of these things. saw that under the mask of
these haif humorous innuendoes, this old seaman, as an insulated
‘Quakerish Nantucketer, was full ofhis insular prejudices, and rather
distrustful of al aliens, unless they hailed from Cape Cod or the
Vineyard,

“But what takes thee a-whating? I want to know that before I hink of
shinping ye"

“Weil, sit, want to see what whaling is. t want to see the world.”
“Want fo see what whaling is, eh? Have ye clapped eye on Captain Ahab?”
“Who is Captain Anab, sir?”

Aye, aye, | thought sa. Captain Ahab is the Captain of this ship.”

“lam mistaken then. thought Iwas speaking to the Captain himseit”
“Thou art speaking to Captain Peleg—that's who ye are speaking to,

young man. Itbelongs to me and Captain Bildad io see the Pequod fitted
out for the voyage, and supptied with all her needs, Including crew. We

are part owners and agents. But as Iwas going to say, fthou wantest

to know what whaling is, as thaw tellest ye do, tean put ye in a way
offinding it out before ye bind yourseif to i, past backing out. Clap

‘eye on Captain Ahab, young man, and thaw wilt nd that he has only one
fea”

“What do you mean, sir? Was the other one lost by a whate?™

“Lost by a whate! Young man, come nearer to merit was devoured, chewed
‘up, crunched by the monsirousest parmacetty that ever chipped a

oatl—ah, ahr

was a litle alarmed by his energy. perhaps aiso a ite touched at
