Humed in, and never slept better in my tie

CHAPTER 4, The Counterpane

Upon waking next moming about daylight, !found Queequeg’s arm thrown
over me in the most oving and affectionate manner. You had almost
thought thad been his wife. The counterpane was of patchwork, full of
odd lite part-cofoured squares and triangles; and this arm of his
tattooed ail over with an interminable Cretan labyrinth of a gure, no
two paris ofwhich were of one precise shade—owing I suppose to his,
keeping his arm at sea unmethodically in sun and shade, his shirt
sleeves iregularly rotled up at various times—this same arm of his, |
‘say, looked forall the world ike a sitip of that same patchwork

quill. Indeed, partly tying on itas the arm did when Hirst awoke, 1
could hardly tell it from the quit, they so blended their hues

together: and itwas only by the sense of weight and pressure that |
could tell that Queequeg was hugging me.

My sensations were strange. Let me try to explain them. When twas a
child, | well cemember a somewhat similar circumstance that befell me,
whether twas a reality or a dream, [never could entirely seltle. The
circumstance was this. [had been culing up same caper or other—t

think it was trying to crawi up the chimney, as Fhad seen a title

sweep do a few days previous, and my stepmother who, somehow oF other,
was ail the time whipping me, or sending me to bed supperiess,—my
mnottier dragged me by the legs out of the chimney and packed me oftto
‘bed, though it was only two o'clock in the aftemoon of the 2tst June,

the fongest day in the year in our hemisphere. Helt dreadfully. But

there was no hep fori, so up stairs I went to my tittle room in the

{third floor, undressed myself as slowly as possible so as to kit time,

and with a biter sigh got between the sheets.

Hay there dismaity calculating that sixteen entire hours must elapse
before I could hope for a resurrection. Sixteen hours in bed! the small

‘of my back ached to think ofit. And it was so light too; the sun

shining in at the window, and a great ratting of coaches in the

stteets, and the sound of gay voices ail over the house. Heit worse

and worse—at last I got up, dressed, and sofly going down in my
slockinged feet, sought out my stepmother, and suddenly threw myself at
her feet, beseeching her as a particular favour to give me a good
slippering for my misbehaviour; anything indeed but condemning me to

fe abed such an unendurabie length of ime. But she was the best and
‘most conscientious of stepmothers, and back Fhad to go to my foam. For
several hours Hay there broad awake, feeling a great deal worse than
have ever done since, even from the greatest subsequent misfortunes
Attast must have fallen into a troubled nightmare of a daze; and

slowly waking fom it_half sleeped in dreams—t opened my eyes, and the
before sunt oom was now wrapped in outer darkness. Instantly I felt

a shock running through at! my flame; nothing was to be seen, and
