shivered lance will do. Muster the men. Surely [have not seen him yet,
By heaven it eannot bel—missing?—quiok! call them afl”

‘The old man’s hinted thought was true. Upon mustering the company, the
Parsee was not there.

“The Parsee" cried Stubb—“he must have been caught in

“The black vomit wrench thee!—run all of ye above, alow, cabin,
forecastie—find him—nat gone—not gone”

‘But quickly they returned to him with the tidings that the Parsee was
nowhere to be found,

 

“Aye, sit” said Stubb—"caught among the tangles of your fine—t thought
saw him dragging under.”

*_My_tine!_my_tine? Gone?—gone? What means that litte word? What
deattckned rings in it, that old Ahab shakes as ifhe were the betty.

‘The harpoon, toof—toss over the litle there, —d'ye see it?—the forged

ron, men, the while whale’s—no, no, n0.—biistered fool! this hand did

dart it's in the fisht—Alof there! Keep him nailed—Quick!—ait

‘hands to the rigging of the boats—collect the oars—harpooneers! the

fons, the irons!—hoist the royais higher—a pull on all the

sheeis!—heim there! steady, steady for your ffet Fil ten times girdle

the unmeasured globe: yea and dive straight through it, but MH slay

‘ion yet

“Great God! but for one single instant show thyself cried Starbuck:
“never, never wilt thou capture him, old man—in Jesus’ name no more of
this, that's worse than devil's madness. Two days chased: twice stove

to splinters; thy very leg once more snatched fram under thee; thy evil
shadow gone—all good angels mobbing thee with warnings: —what more
‘wouldst thou have?—Shall we keep chasing this murderous fish ttl he
swamps the last man? Shall we be dragged by him to the bottom ofthe
sea? Shall we be towed by him to the infemal world? Oh, oh.—Impiety
and blasphemy to hunt hie more”

“Starbuck, oftate t've felt strangely moved to thee; ever since that
hour we both saw—thou know’st what, in one another's eyes. But in this
matter ofthe whate, be the front of thy face to me as the patm of this
hand—a tipless, unfeatured blank. Ahab is for ever Ahab, man. This
whole act's immutably decread. Twas rehearsed by thee and me a bition
‘years before this ocean rolled. Fool! | am the Fates Yeutenant: act,
under orders, Look thou, underling! that thou obeyest mine —Stand round
‘me, men, Ye see an old man cut down to the stump: leaning on a shivered
tance; propped up on a lonely foot. Tis Ahab—his body's part; but
Ahab's soul's a centipede, that moves upon a hundred legs. feel
strained, haif stranded, as ropes that tow dismasted frigates in a

‘gale; and I may tak so. But ere Fhreak, ye'll hear me erack: and ti
