brain proper is more than compensated by the wonderful comparative
magnitude of his spinal cord

But leaving this hint o operate as it may with the phrenoiogists, |
would merely assume the spinal theory for a moment, in reference to the
Sperm Whale's hump. This august hump, i{ mistake not, dises over one
ofthe larger vertebree, and is, therefore, in some sort, the outer

‘convex mould ofit. From its relative situation then, I should att

this high hump the organ of fmness or indomitableness in the Sperm
Whale. And that the great monster is indomitable, you will yethave
reason to know.

CHAPTER 81. The Pequod Meets The Virgin,

‘The predestinated day arived, and we duly met the ship Jungitau,
Derick De Deer, master, of Bremen.

Atone time the greatest whaling people in the world, the Dutch and
‘Germans are now among the (east; but here and there at very wide
intervals offatitude and tangitude, you stil occasionally meet with
their fag in the Paci.

For some reason, the Jungfrau seemed quite eager to pay her respects.
While yet some distance from the Bequod, she rounded to, snd dropaing
boat, her captain was impetied towards us, impatiently standing in the
bows instead of he stem,

“What has he in his hand there?” cried Starbuck, pointing to something
wavingly held by the German. “impossible!—a tamp-feeder™

“Not that” said Stubb, “no, no, ifs 2 coffze-pot, Mi. Starbuck: he's.
‘epming off to make us our coffee, is the Yarman; don't you see that big
tin can there alongside of him?—that's his boiling water. Oni he’s all
right, is the Yaeman”

“Go along with you cried Flask, “i's a lamp-feeder and an all-can
He's out ofoil, and has come a-begging.”

However curious it may seem for an oil-ship fa be borrowing oil on the
whale-ground, and however much it may invertedly contradict the old
proverb about carrying coals to Newoastie, yet sometimes such a thing
‘really happens; and in the present case Captain Detick De Deer did
indubitably conduct a iamp-feeder as Flask did deciare.

Ashe mounted the deck, Ahab abruptly accosted him, without at al
‘heeding what he had in his hand: but in his broken tingo, the German
soon evinced his complete ignorance of the White Whale: immediately
‘uring the conversation to his lamp-feeder and olf can, with some
remarks touching his having to turn into his hammock at night in
