shoes, something tke Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut up,
belted about, every way inciosed, surrounded, and made an ulteristand
ofby the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams will
sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea tures. But these
extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Mlinois,

Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was,
seltled by the red-men. Thus goes the fegend. In olden times an eagle
swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an infant
Indian in his talons. With loud lament the parents saw thelr child
borne out of sight over the wide waters. They resnived to follow in the
same direction. Setting out in their canoes, afler a perilous passage
they discovered the island, and there they found an emply ivory
casket,—the poor litle Indian's skeleton

‘What wonder, then, that these Nantucketers, born on a beach, should
take to the sea for a livelthood! They first caught crabs and quohogs

in the sand; grown bolder, they waded out with nets for mackerel; more
‘experienced, thay pushed offin boas and captured cod; and at last,
Jgunching a navy of great ships on the sea, explored this watery world
put an incessant bett of circumnavigalions round it; peeped in at
Behing’s Straits; and in aif seasons and all oceans declared

everlasting war with the mightiest animated mass thathas survived the
food, most monstrous and most mountainous! That Himmalchan, sait-sea
Mastodon, clothed with such portentousness of unconscious power, that
his very panies are mote to be dreaded than his most fearless and
‘malicious assaults!

And thus have these naked Nantucksters, these sea hemiits, issuing from
their anti in the sea, overrun and conquered the watery world lke

‘so many Alexanders; parceiting out among them the Atlantic, Pacific,
and Indian ooeans, as the three pirate powers did Poland. Let America
‘add Mexica to Texas, and pile Cuba upon Canada; tet the English
overswarm ail India, and hang out their blazing banner from the sun,

‘wo thirds of this terraqueous globe are the Nantucketer's. For the sea

is his; he owns it, 8s Emperars own empires; other seamen having but a
‘right of way through it, Merchant ships are but exiension bridges;

armed ones but floating forts; even pirates and privateers, though
following the sea as highwaymen the road, they but plunder other ships,
other fragments ofthe tand tke themselves, without seeking to draw
their ving from the bottomless deep itself. The Nantucketer, he alone
‘resides and riots an the sea; he atone, in Bible language, goes down to
iin ships; to and fro ploughing it as his own speciat plantation
_There_is his home; _there_ties his business, which a Noah's food
would not interupt, though itoverwheimed al the millions in China.

He fives on the sea, as prairie cocks in the prairie: he hides among

the waves, he climbs them as chamois hunters climb the Alps. For years
the knows not the land; so that when he comes to iat iast, it smells

like another world, more strangely than the moon would to an Earthsman.
With the fandless quit that at sunset folds her wings and is rocked to
