And now that at the proper lime and place, after go fang and wide a
preliminary cruise, Ahab,—ail other whaling waters sweptseemed to have
chased his foe into an ooean-fold, to slay him the more securely there

now, that he found himself hard by the very latitude and longitude

where his tormenting wound had been inflicted; now that a vessel had

been spoken which on the very day preceding had actually encountered
Moby Dick—and now that aif his suocessive meetings with various ships
contrastingly concurred to show the demoniac indifference with which

the white whale tore his hunters, whether sinning or sinned against

‘ow itwas that there furked 8 something ia the old man's eyes, which

itwas hardly sufferable for feeble souls to see. As the unsetting

polar star, which through the fiveiong, arctic, six months’ night

sustains its piercing, steady, central gaze; so Ahab's purpose now

xedly gleamed down upon the constant midnight of the gloomy crew. It
domineered above them so, that ail their bodings, doubis, misgivings,

fears, ware fain to hide beneath their souls, and lot sprout forth a

single spear or leaf,

In this foreshadowing interval too, ail humor, forced or natural,
vanished, Stubb no more strove to raise a smite; Starbuck no more
strove to check one. Ake, joy and somow, hope and fear, seemed
ground to finest dust, and powdered, for the time, in the clamped

‘mortar of Ahab's iron soul, Like machines, they dumbly moved about the
‘deck, ever conscious that the old man’s despot eye was on tham.

But did you deeply scan him in his more secret confidential hours; when
‘ne thought no glance but one was on him: then you would have seen that
‘even as Ahab's eyes so awed the crew's, the insorulable Parsee's glance
awed his; or somehow, at feast, in some wild way, at imes affected i.

Such an added, gliding strangeness began to invest the thin Fedallah

‘naw; such ceaseless shudderings shook him; that the men looked dubious
at him, half uncertain, as it seemed, whether indeed he were a mortal
substance, of else a tremulous shadow cast upon the deck by some unseen
being’s body. And that shadow was always hovering there. For not by

night, even, had Fedallah ever ceriainty been known to slumber, oF go
‘below. He would stand stilt for hours: but never sat or leaned; his wan

but wondrous eyes did plainly sayWe two waichmen never rest

Nor, at any time, by night or day could the mariners now step upon the
deck, unless Ahab was before them: either standing in his piwathole,

oF exactly pacing the planks between two undeviating fimits,—the
‘main-mast and the mizen; or else they saw him standing in the
‘cabin-seuttie,—his fiving foot advanced upon the deck, as ito step.

hhis hat siouched heavily over his eyes: so that however motionless he
stood, however the days and nights were added an, that he had not swung
in his hammock; yet hidden beneath that sloushing hat, they cauld never
tell unerringly whether, for allthis, his eyes were really closed at

times; oF whether he was stil intently scanning them; no matter,

though he stood 50 in the scuttle for a whole hour on the stretch, and

the unheeded night-damp gathered in beads of dew upon that stone-carved
