snatch the whatetance. Many are as green as the Green Mountains whence
they came. In some things you would think them but a few hours old.

‘Look there! that chap strutting round the comer. He wears a beaver hat

and swaliow-tailed coal, girdled with a saifor-belt and sheath-knife.

Here comes another with a sou-wester and a bombazine cloak.

No town-bred dandy wit compare with a country-bred one—I mean a
downright bumpkin dandy—a fellow that, in the dog-days, will mow his
two acres in buckskin gloves for fear of tanning his hands. Now when @
‘country dandy tke this takes itinto his head to make a distinguished
reputation, and joins the great whale-fishery, you should see the
‘comical things he does upon reaching the seaport. In bespesking his
sea-outlt, he orders beil-buttons to his waistcoats; straps to his

canvas trowsers. Ah, poor Hay-Seed! how bitterly will burst those

st.aps in the frst howling gale, when thou art driven, straps,

buttons, and aif, down the throat of the tempest.

But think not that this famous town has only harpooneers, cannibals,
and bumipkins to show her visitors. Not at all. Sit New Bedford is a

‘queer place. Had it not been for us whaiemen, that tract of tand would

this day perhaps have been In as howling condition as the coast af
Labrador. As itis, parts of her back country are enough to frighten

‘ane, they fook go bony. The town itseifis perhaps the dearest place to

five in, in all New England. itis a and of ol, rue enough: but not

{ike Canaan; a land, also, of com and wine. The streets do notTun

‘with mitk; nor ia the spsing-time do they pave them with fresh egas.

Yet, in spite ofthis, nowhere in all America will you find more

pattician-tike houses; parks and gardens more opuitent, than in New
Bedford. Whence came they” how planted upan this once scragay sooria of
a county?

‘Ge and gaze upon the iron emblematical harpoons round yonder lofty
‘mansion, and your question will be answered. Yes, ail these brave

houses and flowery gardens came fromm the Alantic, Pacific, and indian
‘gceans. One and ali, they were harpooned and dragged up hither from the
bottom ofthe sea. Can Herr Alexander perform a feat tke that?

In New Bedford, fathers, they say. give whales for dowers to their
daughters, and portion aff their nieces with a few porpoises 2-piece.
‘You must go to New Bedford to see a britiant wedding; for, they say,
they have reservoirs of oil in every house, and every night recklessly
‘buin their lengths in spermaceti candies.

In summertime, the town is sweet to see; full of ine mapies—iong
avenues of green and gold, And in August, high in air, the beautiful

‘and bountiful horse-chestnuls, candelabra.wise, profier the passer-by
‘their apering upright cones of congregated blossoms. So omnipotent is,
art: which in many a district of New Bedard has superinduced bright
terraces of flowers upon the barren refuse rocks thrown aside at
creation's final day,
