is right for a whating captain to jeopardize that ife in the active
parils of the chase. So Tameriane’s soidiers often argued with tears in
their eyes, whether that invaluable fife of his ought fo be carried

into the thickest of te fat.

But with Ahab the question assumed a modified aspect. Considering that,
with two legs man is but a hobbting wight in ail times of danger:
‘considering that the pursuit of whales is always under great and
extraordinary diffculties; that every individual moment, Indeed, then
‘comprises a peril; under these circumstances is it wise for any maimed
‘man to enter a whale-boattin the hunt? As a general thing, the
jointowners of he Pequod must have plainly thought not.

Ahab well knew that although his fiends at home would think litte of
his entering 2 boat in certain comparatively harmiess vicissitudes of

the chase, for the sake of being neat the scene of action and giving

his orders in person, yet for Captain Ahab to have a boat actually
apportioned io him as a regular headsmran in the hunt—above ail for
Captain Ahab to be supplied with five extra men, as that same boat's
orew, he well knew that such generous conceits never entered the heads
ofthe owners of the Pequod. Therefore he had not solicited a boat's
‘few from them, nor had he in any way hinted his desires on that head.
Nevesthetess he had taken private measures of bis own touching afl that
‘matter. Until Cabaco's published discovery, the sailors had litle

foreseen it, though to be sure when, after being a title while out of

port, al hands had concluded the customary business of fiting the
whaleboais for service; when some time after this Ahab was now and then
found bestirring himeeltin the matter of making thale-pins with his

‘own hands for what was thought io be one of the spare boats, and even
solicitously cutting the small wooden skewers, which when the fine is
tunning out are pinned over the groove in the bow: when ail this was
observed in him, and particulary his soticitude in having an extra

coat of sheathing in the bottom of the boat, as ifto make it better
withstand the pointed pressure ofhis ivory limb; and also the anxiety

‘he evinoed in exactly shaping the thigh board, or clumsy cleat, as it

is sometimes called, the horizontal piece in the boat's bow for bracing
the knee against in darting or stabbing at the whale; when it was,
observed how offen he stood up in that boat with his solitary knee

fixed in the semi-circular depression in the oleal, and with the
carpenter's chisel gouged out a little here and straightened ita

tittle there; all hese things, tsay, had awakened much interest and
curiosity at the time. But almost everybody supposed that this

particular preparative heedfulness in Ahab must only be with a view to
the ultimate chase of Moby Dick: for he had already revealed his
intention to hunt that mortal monster in person. But such a supposition
id by no means involve the remotest suspicion as to any boat's crew
being assigned to that boat.

Now, with the subordinate phantoms, what wonder remained soon waned
‘away; for in a whaler wonders soon wane. Besides, now and then such
