drawers! A most moutdy and over salted death, though;—cheriest
cherries! chesriest Oh, Flask, for one ted chemy ere we die?”

“Cherries? Fonty wish that we were where they grow. Oh, Stubb, Fhope.
my poor mother's drawn my part-pay ere this: ifnot, few coppers will
‘new come to her, for the voyage is up.”

From the ship's bows, nearly al he seamen now hung Inactive; hammers,
bits of plank, tances, and harpoons, mechanically retained in their
‘hands, just as they had darted from their various employments; all
their enchanted eyes intent upon the whate, which from side to side
strangely vibrating his predestinating head, sent a broad band of
overspreading semicircular foam before him as he rushed. Retribution,
swift vengeance, sternal malice ware in his whole aspect, and spite of
ail that mortal man could do, the solid white buttress of his forehead
smote the ship's starboard bow, il men and timbers reeled. Some fell
fat upon their faces. Like dislodged trucks, the heads ofthe
‘arnooneers aio shook on their bullsike necks. Through the breach,
they heard the watets pour, as mountain torrents down a fume,

“The ship! The hearse!_the second hearse!” cried Ahab from the boat;
“its wood could only be Americant”

Diving beneath the selling ship, the whale ran quivering along its
keel but turing under water, swifly shot to the surface again, far
offthe other bow, but within 3 few yards of Ahab's boat, where, fora
time, he lay quiescent.

“Hurn my body from the sun, What ho, Tashtego! fet me hear thy
aemmer. Ohl ye three unsurrendered epires of mine; thou uncracked kee,
and only god-buttied hull: thou firm deck, and haughty helm, and
Pole-pointed prow,—death-glorious ship! must ye then perish, and
without me? Am cut off rom the fast fond pride of meanest

shipwrecked captains? Oh, lonely death on lonely life! Oh, now Heel

‘my topmost greainess ties ia my topmost grief Ho, hol from all your
furthest bounds, pour ye now in, ye botd billows of my whole foregone

life, and top this one piled comber of my death! Towards thee roll

thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the fast | grapple with

thee; from hel's heart slab at thee; for hate's sake bspit my last

breath al thee, Sink all cofins and all hearses to one commen pool

‘and since neither oan be mine, tet me then tow to pieces, while stit
chasing thee, though tied to thee, thou damned whale! _Thus_ tgive up
the spear™

‘The harpoon was darted: the sticken whale flew forward: with igniting
velocity the fine can through the grooves;—ran foul, Ahab stooped to
clear it he did clear it; but the flying tum caught him round the

neck, and volcelessly ss Turkish mutes bowsiring their vietim, he was
shot out of the boat, ere the crew knew he was gone. Next instant, the
heavy eye-spiice in the rope’s final end flew out of the stark-empty
