prepared to see Father Manple after gaining the height, slowly turn
round, and stooping over the pulpit, deliberately drag up the adder
step by slep, til the whole was deposited within, feaving him
impregnabie in his title Quebec.

pondered some time without fully comprehending the reason for this
Father Mapple enjoyed such a wide reputation for sincerity and
sanity, that | could not suspect him of courting notoriety by say

‘mere tricks of the siage. No, thought , there must be some sober
season for this thing; furthermore, it must symbolize something unseen.
Can ithe, then, that by that act of physical isolation, he signifies

‘his spiritual withdrawal for the time, rom all outward worldly tes

‘and connexions? Yes, for replenished with the meat and wine of the
‘word, to the faithful man of God, this pulpit, see, is a

seif-containing stranghold—a tofty Ehrenbreitstein, with a perennial
well of water within the walls.

But the side tadder was not the only strange feature ofthe piace,
borrowed from the chapiain's former sea-farings. Between the marble
‘cenotaphs on either hand ofthe pulpit, the wall which formed its back
was adorned with a large painting representing a gallant ship beating
against a terrible storm off a lee coast af black ranks and snowy
breakers. But high above the flying scud and dark-roling clouds, there
foaled a litte isle of sunlight, ftom which beamed forth an angel's
‘fave; and this bright face shed a distinct spot of radiance upon the
ship's tossed deck, something like that silver plate now insested into
the Vietory's plank where Nelson fell. "Ah, nable ship," the ange!
seemed to say, “beat on, beat on, thou noble ship, and bear a hardy
‘heim; for fol the sun is breaking through: the clouds are roling
‘off_serenest azure is at hand.”

Nor was the pulpit iiseifwithout a tace ofthe same sea-taste that
‘had achieved the ladder and the picture. lis panelled front was in the
Jikenoss of a ship's bluff bows, and the Holy Bibie rested on a
projecting piene of scroll work, fashioned after a ship's fddle-headed
beak,

What could be more full of meaning?—for the pulpit is ever this earth's
foremost part; ail the rest cames in its rear; the pulnitieads the

world, From thenee itis the storm of Gad's quick wrath is frst

descried, and the bow must bear the earliest brunt, From thenoe itis
the God of breezes fair or foul is first Invoked for favourable winds,

‘Yes, the world's 2 ship on its passage bul, and not a voyage complete,
and the pulpit is its prow.

(CHAPTER 9, The Sermon.

Father Mapple rose, and in a mild voice of unassuming authority ordered
the scattered people to condense. “Starboard gangway, there! side away
