‘himself, white whole thunder-clouds swept aside front his brow. “That
tively ery upon this deadly calm might almost convert a better
man—Where away?”

“Three points on the starboard bow, sir, and bringing down her breeze
tous!

“Better and better, man, Would now St. Paul would come along that way,
and to my breezelessness bring his breeze! O Nature, and O soul of mant
haw far beyond ail ullerance are your linked anatagiest not the

‘smallest atom stirs or lives on matter, but has its cunning dupticate

in mind.”

CHAPTER 74, The Jeroboam’s Story.

Hand in hand, ship and breeze blew on; but the breeze came faster than
the ship, and soon the Pequod began to rock.

‘By and by, through the glass the stranger's boais and manned mastheads
proved her a whale-ship. But as she was so far io windward, and

shooting by. apparently making a passage to some other ground, the
Pequod could not hope to reach her. So the signal was set o see what
sesponse would be made

Here be it said, that ite the vessets of military marines, the ships:
ofthe Amerioan Whale Fleet have each a private signal, all which

signals being collected in a book with the names ofthe ‘espective

vessels atiached, every capiain is provided with it, Thereby, the whale
‘commanders are enabled to recognise each ather upon the conan, even at
onsiderable distances and with no small faciity.

‘The Pequod's signal was at fast respanded to by the stranger's setting
her own; which proved the ship to be the Jeroboam of Nantucket

‘Squaring her yards, she bore down, ranged abeam under the Pequod’s lee,
and jowered a boat: itsoan drew nigh; but, as the sideladder was,

‘being rigged by Starbuck's order to accommodate the visiting captain,

the sirangerin question waved his hand from his boat's stem in token

of that prooeeding being entirely unnecessary. Itturned out that the
Jeroboam had a malignant epidemic on board, and that Mayhew, her
captain, was fearful of infecting the Pequod's company. For, though
himself and boat's crew remained untainted, and though his ship was.
haifa rifle-shot off, and an incorruptible sea and alr rolling and

flowing between; yet conscientiously adhering to the timid quarantine

of the land, he peremptonly refused fo come into direct contact with

the Pequod

‘But this did by no means prevent all communications. Preserving an
interval of some few yards between ilself and the ship, the Jeroboam's
‘boat by the occasional use of iis oars contrived to keep paratiel to
