more, with 2 stiletio-ike ory that startled every man from his nod,
the negro yelled out—"There! there again! there she breaches! ight,
ahead! The White Whale, the White Whaler”

Upon this, the seamen rushed ta the yard-arms, as in swarming-time the
bees rush to the boughs. Bare-headed in the sultry sun, Ahab stood on
‘the bowspait, and with one hand pushed far behind In readiness to wave
this orders to the helmsman, cast his eager glance in the direction|
Indicated alot ty the outstetched motioniess arm of Daggoo.

‘Whethes the fitting attendance ofthe one sti and solitary jet had
‘gradually warked upon Ahab, 60 that he was now prepared to eonnest the
ideas of miidness and repose with the first sight of the particular

whale he pursued; however this was, or whether his eagemess betrayed
‘him; whichever way it might have hen, no sooner did he distinctly
perceive the white mass, than with a quick intensity he instantly gave
orders for towering

‘The four boats were soon on the water; Anab’s in advanee, and atl
swiftly pulling towards their prey. Soon it went down, and while, with

vars suspended, we were awalting its reappearance, jof in the same spot
where it sank, once more it slowly Tose. Almost forgetting for the

‘moment all thoughts of Moby Dick, we now gazed at the most wondrous
phenomenon which the secret seas have hitherto reveated to mankind. A
vast pulpy mass, furlongs in length and breadth, of a glancing
ezeam-colour, lay floating on the water, innumerable jong arms

radiating from its centre, and curing and twisting like a nest of
_anacondas, as if blindly to clutch at any hapless abject within reach

No perceptibie face or front did it have; n0 conceivable token of

either sensation or instinct; but undulated there on the billows, an
unearthly, formless, chanoe-tike apparition of ie

As with 2 low sucking sound it slowly disappeared again, Starbuck stil
gazing al the agitated waters where it had sunk, with a wild voice
exclaimed—“Almost cather had f seen Moby Dick and fought fim, than to
‘have seen thee, thou white ghost!

“What was it, Si?” said Flask,

“The great tive squid, which, they say, few whale-ships ever beheld,
‘and retumed to their ports to teil oft”

But Ahab said nothing; turning his boat, he sailed back to the vessel;
the rest as silently folowing,

Whatever superstitions the sperm whalemen in general have connected
with the sight of this object, cestain itis, that a glimpse ofit

‘being so very unusual, thal circumstance has gone far to invest it with
portentousness. So sarely is it beheld, that though one and afl of them
declare itto be the largest animated thing in the ocean, yet very few
