something that compietaty fascinated my attention, and convinced me
that he must indeed be a heathen. Going to his heavy grego, of wrapall,
ar dreadnaught, which he had previously hung on a chair, he fumbled in
the pockets, and produced at length a curious litte deformed image

with a hunch on its back, and exactly the colour of a three days’ old
‘Congo baby. Remembering the embaimed head, at first | aimost thought
‘hal this black manikin was a feal baby preserved in some siovlar
manner. But seeing that it was not at all imber, and that it glstened

‘a good deal like polished ebony, | concluded that it must be nothing

but a wooden idol, which indeed it proved to be. For now the savage
9065 up to the emply fre-place, and removing the papeted fire-board,
sets up this ttle hunch-backed image. ke a tenpin, between the
andirans. The chimney jambs and ail the bricks inside were very sooty,

‘30 that I thought this fre-place made a very appropriate fitle shrine

‘oF chapel for his Congo idol

I now screwed my eyes hard tawards the half hidden image, feeling but
iil at ease meantime—to see what was nex! to follow. First he takes
about a double hanaflul of shavings out of his grego pocket, and places
them carefully before the dat; then laying a bit of ship biscuit on

top and applying the flame from the lamp, he kindled the shavings into
a sacrificial biaze. Presently, after many hasty snatches into the

fire, and stil hastier withdrawals of his fingers (whereby he seemed

to be scorching them badly}, he a last sucoseded in drawing out the
biscuit; hen blowing off the heat and ashes a iltle, he made a polite
offer of it to the little negro. But the litle devil did not seem to

fancy such dry sort of fare at ail; he never moved his lips. All these
strange antics were scoompanied by stil stranger guttural noises from
the devolee, who seemed to be praying in a sing-song or else singing
some pagan psatmody or other, during which his face twitched about in
the most unnatural manner. Atlast extinguishing the fire, he took the
idol up very unceremoniously, and bagged it again in his arego pocket
as carelessly as ifthe were a sportsman bagging a dead woodcock

All these queer proceedings increased my uncomforiableness, and seeing
‘him now exhibiting strong symptoms of concluding his business
‘operations, and jumping into bed with me, F thought itwas high te,

now or never, before the light was put out, o break the spell in which

had so tong been bound,

But the interval Fspent in detiberating what to say, was a fatal ane.
‘Taking up his tomahawk from the table, he examined the head oft for
‘an Instant, and then holding it to the tight, with his mouth at the

handle, he pufled out great clouds of tobacco smoke. The next moment
the fight was extinguished, and this wild cannibal, tomahawk between
‘his teeth, sprang into bed with me. sang out, toould not help it

‘now; and giving a sudden grunt of astonishment he began feeling me.

Stamimering out something, Hknew not what, | oled away from him
‘against the wall, and then conjured him, whoever or whatever he might
