to comprehend aright this wondrous whale, by merely poring over his
dead attenuated skeleton, stretched in this peaceful wood, No. Only in
the heart of quickest penis; only when within the eddyings of his
angry flukes; onty on the profound unbounded sea, can the fully
Invested whale be truly and tivingly found out

Sut the spine. For that, the bestway we can consider itis, with a
crane, to pile its bones high up on end. No speedy enterprise. But now
it's done, itiooks much like Pompey’s Pilar

‘There are forty and odd vertebrae in ail, which in the skeleton are not
Jocked together. They mostly lie Hike the great knobbed blocks on a
‘Gothic spire, forming sofid courses of heavy masonry. The largest, 2
middie one, isin width something Jess than three feet, and in depth
‘more than four. The smaitest, where the spine tapers away into the
tail, is onty two inches in width, and looks something like a white
biliard-bal. | was told that there were stil smailer ones, but they
‘nad been lost by some title cannibal urchins, the priest's children,
who had stoien them to play marbles with. Thus we see how that the
spine of even the hugest of tiving things tapers offat ast into

siomple child's play.

(CHAPTER 104, The Fossil Whale,

From his mighty bulk the whale affords a most congenial theme whereon
to entarge, ampity, and generally expatiate. Would you, you could not
‘compress him. By good rights he should only be treated of in imperial
folio. Not to tell over again his furlongs from spiracie to tall, and

the yards he measures about the waist; only think of the gigantic
involutions of his intestines, where they tie in him ike great cables,

and hawsers coiled sway in the sublertanean orlop-deck of a
fine-of-battle-ship.

Since Ihave undertaken to manhandle this Leviathan, it behooves me to
approve myself omnisciently exhaustive in the enterprise: not

overlooking the minutest seminal germs of his blood, and spinning im

ut to the uttermost ooil of his bowels. Having already descrited him

in most of his present habitalory and anatomical peculiarities, it now
‘remains to magnify him in an archaeological, fossilferous, and

_antedituvian point of view. Apptied to any other creature than the
Leviathan—to an ant or a flea—such portly tesms might justly be deemed
uawarraniably grandiloquent. But when Leviathan is the text, the case

is altered. Fain am Io stagger to this emprise under the weightiest

words of the dictionary. And here be it said, that whenever ithas been
convenient tp consult one in the course ofthese dissertations, thave
invariably used a huge quario edition of Johnson, expressly purchased

{or that purpose; because that famous fexieographer’s uncommon personal
butk more fitted him ta compite a fexioan ta he used by a whale author

ike me.
