While Daggoo and Queequeg were stopping the strained planks: and as the
whale swimming out from them, turned, and showed one entire Rank as he
shot by them again, af that moment a quick cry weat up. Lashed round

‘and round to the fish's back; pinioned in the tums upan tums in

which, during the past night, the whale had reeled the involutions of

the fines around hin, the half torn body of the Parsee was seen: his

sable raiment frayed to shreds; his distended eyes turned full upon old
Ahab.

‘The harpoon dropped from his hand,

“Befooled, befooled'—drawing in a Jong lean breath—“Aye, Parsee! Ise
thee again. —Aye, and thou goest before; and this, _this_then is the
‘hearse that thou didst promise. But ! hold thee to the fast letier of

thy word, Where is the second hearse? Away, mates, to the ship! those
boats are useless now, repair them ifye can in time, and retum to me:
ifpot, Ahab is enough fo die—Down, ment the first thing that but

‘offers to jump from this boat stand in, hat thing harpoon. Ye are

not other men, but my arms and my legs; and so obey me.—Where's the
whale? gone down again?”

But he looked too nigh the boat; for as ifbent upon escaping with the
corpse he bore, and as ithe particular piace of the last encounter,

had been but a stage in his leeward voyage, Moby Dick was now again
steadily swimming forward; and had almost passed the ship —which thus
far had been sailing in the contrary direction to him, though for the
present her headway had been stopped. He seemed swimming with his
‘utmost velocity, and now only intent upon pursuing his own straight

path in the sea

“Oh! Ahab," oried Starbuck, “not toa late ie it, even now, the third
day, to desist. Seef Moby Dick seeks thee not. itis thou, thou, that
madly seekest Niet

Setting sail tothe rising wind, the lonely boat was swifly impelled
to leeward, by both oars and canvas. And al ast when Ahab was sliding

by the vessel, 50 near as plainly to distinguish Starbuok's face as he

Jeaned over the rail, he hailed him fo tum the vessel about, and

follow hima, not too swiftly, ata judicious intervai. Glancing upwards,

te saw Tashiego, Queequeg, and Daggoo, eagerly mounting to the three
mastheads; while the oarsmen were racking in the two staved boats

which had but just been hoisted to the side, and were busily at work in
repairing them. One after the other, through the port-holes, as he

sped, he also caught fying glimpses of Stubb and Flask, busying
themselves on deck among bundles of new irons and lances. Aste saw all
this; as he heard the hammers in the broken boats; far other hammers
seemed driving a nail into his heart. Gut he ratlied. And now marking

that the vane of Rag was gone from the main-mast-head, he shouted ta
Tashiego, who had just gained that perch, to descend again for another
flag, and a hammer and nails, and so nail it to the mast
