Nos was Ahab unmindful of another thing. in times of song emotion
‘mankind disdain all base considerations; but such fimes are evanescent.
‘The permanent constitutional condition of the manufactured man, thought
Ahab, is sordidness. Granting that the White Whale fully incites the

hearts of this my savage crew, and ptaying round their savageness even
breeds a certain generous knight-errantism in thera, stil, while for

te fove of t they give chase to Moby Dick, they must aiso have food

for ther more common, daily appetites. For even the high lied and
chivalric Crusaders of oid times were rot content to traverse wo
thousand miles ofand to fight for their holy sepulchre, without
‘committing burgiaries, picking pockets, and gaining other pious
perquisites by the way. Had they been strictly held to their one final

‘and romantic object—that final and romantic objact, oo many would have
fumed from in disgust. t wil not strip these men, thought Ahab, of

all hopes of cash—aye, cash. They may scom cash now, but fet some
moniths go by, and no perspective promise ofit io them, and then this
same quiescent cash al at once mutinying in them, this same cash would
‘soon cashier Ahab.

Nor was there wanting stil another precautionary motive more related
to Ahab personally. Having impulsively, itis probable, and perhaps
somewhat prematurely revealed the prime but private purpose of the
Pequod’s voyage, Ahab was now entirely conscious that, in so doing, he
had indirectly taid himself open to the unanswerable charge of

usurpation: and with perfect impunity, both moral and Yegal, Ris crew

if go disposed, and fo that end competent, could refuse ai further

obedience to him, and even violently wrest from him the command. From
even the barely hinted imputation of usurpation, and the gossible
consequences of such a suppressed impression gaining ground, Ahab must
of course have been most anxious to protect himself. That protection

could only consist in his own predominating brain and heart and hand,
backed by a heedful, closely catculating attention to every minute
~atriospheric influence which itwas possible for his crew to be

subjected to

For ail these reasons then, and others perhaps too analytic to be
‘verbally developed here, Ahab plainly saw that he must stil! in a good
degree continue true to the natural, nominal purpose of the Pequod's
‘voyage; observe ail customary usages; and not onty that, but force
himself to evinos ail his wel known passionate interest in the general
pursuit of his profession.

Be all this asit may, his voice was now often heard hailing the three

‘mastheads and admonishing them to keep a bright /oak-out, and not omit
reporting even a porpoise. This vigilance was not iong without reward,

CHAPTER 47, The Mat-Maker.
