be had of the enormousness of that animated mass, a mere part of whose
‘mere integument yields such a lake of liquid as that. Reckoning ten
arreis to the ton, you have ten tons for the net weight of only three
quarters of the stuffof the whale's skin,

In fife, the visible surface ofthe Sperm Whale is not the least among
the many marveis he presents. Aimost invariably itis all over

obliquely crossed and re-crossed with numberless straight marks in
thick array, something tke those in the finest Hallan tine

‘engravings. But these marks do not seem to be impressed upon the
singlass substance above mentioned, but seem to he seen through It, as
if they were engraved upon the body itself. Nor is this ail. mn some
instances, to the quick, observant eye, those linear marks, as in
veritable engraving, but afford the ground for far other delineations.
These are hierogiyphical; thats, fyou call those mysterious cyphers
‘on the wails of pyramids hieroglyphics, then thal is the proper word to
use in the present connexion. By my retentive memory of the
‘nieroglyphies upon one Sperm Whale in particular, Iwas much struck
with 2 plate tepresenting the old indian characters chiselled on the
famous hierogtyphic palisades on the banks of the Upper Mississippi
Like those mystic rocks, to, the mystic marked whale remains
undecipherable. This allusion to the indian rocks reminds me of another
thing. Besides ail the other phenomena which the exterior ofthe Sperm
Whale presents, he not seidam displays the back, and more especially
his Ranks, effaced in great part ofthe regular linear appearance, by
reason of numerous rude scratches, altogether of an regular, random
aspect, I should say that those New England rocks on the sea-coast,
which Agassiz imagines to bear the marks of violent scraping contact
with vast floating icebergs should say, that those rocks must not a
litte resemble the Sperm Whale in this particular. also seems to me
thal such scratches in the whale are probably made by hastite contact
with other whales: for Have most remarked them in the large,

full-grown bulls ofthe species.

Aword of hwo more concerning this matter ofthe skin or blubber of the
whale. Ithas already been said, that itis stipt from him in long

pieces, called bianket-pieces, Like most sea-terms, this one is very
‘happy and significant. For the whale is indeed wrapt up in his blubber
asin a real blanket or counterpane:; or, sill better, an Indian poncho
slipt over his head, and skirting his extremity. Ris by reason of

this cosy blanketing of his body, thal the whaie Is enabled to keep
himself comfortable in all weathers, in ail seas, times, and tides,

What would become of a Greeniand whale, say, in those shuddering, icy
seas of the North, funsupptied with his cosy surtout? True, other

fish are found exceedingly brisk in those Hyperborean waters; but
these, be it observed, are your cold-blooded, tungiess fish, whose very
bellies are refrigerators; creatures, that warm theriseives under the

Jee of an iceberg, as a travetler in winter would bask before an inn

fire; whereas, tke man, the whale has fungs and warm bieod. Freeze his
blood, and he dies, How wonderful is itthen—except after
