unworthy of being set down ia the ship's common tog. Ah, the world! Oh,
the woria?

Unti the whate fishery rounded Cape Hom, no commerce but colonial
scarcely any intercourse but colonial, was carried on between Europe
and the fong line of the opulent Spanish provinces on the Pacific

‘coast. twas the whateman who first broke through the jealous policy
ofthe Spanish crown, touching those colonies; and, iT space permitted,
itmvight be distinctly shown how from those whatemen at last eventuated
the fiberation of Peru, Chili, and Bolivia fram the yoke of Old Spain,

and the establishment of the etemal democracy in those parts,

“That great America on the other side of the ephere, Australia, was
given to the enlightened world by the whateman. After its frst
Blunder-born discovery by a Dutchman, ail other ships fong shunned
those shores as pestiferously barbarous; but the whale-ship touched
there. The whale-ship is the true mother of that now mighty colony.
Moreover, in the infancy of the first Australian settlement, the

‘emigrants were several times saved from starvation by the benevolent
biscuit of the whale-ship luckily dropping an anchor in theit waters.

‘The uncounted isles of ali Polynesia confess the same truth, and do
commercial homage to the whale-ship, that cleared the way for the
‘missionary and the merchant, and in many cases carried the primitive
missionaries to their frst destinations. that double-bolted land,

Japan, is ever to become hospitable, itis the whale-ship alone to whom
the credit will be due; for already she is on the threshold.

‘Buti, in the face of allthis, you sti deciare that whating has 20
gzathelically noble associations connected with it, then am tready to
shiver fity Jances with you there, and unhorse you with a split heimet
every time,

‘The whale has no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicler, you
will say.

The whale no famous author, and whaling no famous chronicier?_ Who
Sirote the first account of our Leviathan? Who but mighty lob! And who
composed the frst narrative of a whaling-voyage? Who, but no less a

pringe than Alfred the Great, who, with his own royal pen, took down

the words from Other, the Norwegian whale-hunter of those times? And

who pronounced our glowing eulogy in Parliament? Who, but Edmund Burkel

‘True enough, but then whalemen themselves are poor devils; they have no
‘good blood in their veins.

_No good biood in their veins?_ They have something better than royal
Diood there. The grandmother af Benjamin Franklin was Mary Moret
afterwards, by marriage, Mary Folger, one ofthe old settlers of
Nantucket, and the ancestress to a jong line of Folgers and
‘ampooneers—all kth and kin to noble Benjamin—this day darting the
