they ware inscribed, and so be unsotved to the last. And this thought
itmust have been which suggested to Ahab that wild exclamation of his,
when one moming turning away from surveying poor Queequeg—Oh,
devilish tantalization ofthe gods

CHAPTER 141. The Pacific:

When gliding by the Bashee isles we emerged at ast upon the great
South Sea; were itnot for other things, | could have greeted my dear
Pacific with uncounted thanks, for now the tong supplication of my
youth was answered: that serene ovean rolled eastwards from me a
thousand leagues of blue

‘There is, one knows not what sweet mystery about this sea, whose gently
awful stirrings seam to speak of some hidden sou! beneath: Jike those
fabled undulations of the Ephesian sod over the buried Evangelist St

John. And meetitis, that over these sea-pastures, wide-roling watery
prairies and Potters’ Fieids of ail four continents, the waves should

‘ise and fall, and ebb and flow unceasingly; for here, millions of

mixed shades and shadows, drowned dreams, somnambulisms, reveries: all
that we call lives and souls, fle dreaming, dreaming, sti; tossing

{ike slumberers in their beds: the ever-roliing waves but made so by

their restlessness,

‘To any meditative Magian rover, this serene Pacific, once beheld, must
ever after be the sea of tis adoption. Hols the midmost waters of

the world, the Indian ocean and Atiantic being but its arms, The same
waves wash the moles of he new-built Californian towns, but yesterday
planted by the recentest race of men, and fave the faded but sti
‘gorgeous skits of Asiatic lands, older than Abraham, while al between
oat milky-ways of coral isies, and low-lying, endiess, unknown
Archipelagoes, and impenetrable Japans. Thus this mysterious, divine
Pacific zones the world's whole bulk about, makes all cnasts one hay to
1t, seems the tide-beating heart of earth. Lifted by those eternat

swells, you needs must own the seductive god, owing your head to Pan.

But few thoughts of Pan stived Ahab's brain, as standing tike an iron
slatue at his accustomed place beside the mizen rigging, with one

nostril he unthinkingly snuffed the sugary musk from the Bashee istes

Yin whose sweet woods mild fovers must be watking}, and with the other
consciously inhaled the salt breath of the new found sea; thal sea ia,
which the hated White Whale must even then be swimming, Launched st
length upan these almost final waters, and gliding towards the Japanese
‘eruising-ground, the oid man’s purpose intensified itsetf. His frm

fips met ike the lps of a vice; the Getta of his forehead's veins

swelled like overiaden brooks; in his very sleep, his ringing ery san
through the vaulted hull, “Stem aiff the White Whale spouts thick

blood?
