over with a membrane, so as to be quite imperceptibie from without

Is it not curious, that so vast a being as the whale should see the
world through so email an eye, and hear the thunder through an ear
which is emaiter than a hare's? But his eyes were broad as the lens
of Hersche''s great telescope; and his ears capacious as the porches of
cathedrals; would that make him any tanger of sight, of sharper of
‘nearing? Not at all—Why then do you ty to “enlarge” your mind?
Subtiize it

Lotus now with whatever fevers and sleam-engines we have at hand, cant
‘over the sperm whale's head, that it may He bottom up, then, ascending
bya fadderto the summit, have @ peep down the mouth; and were it not
that the body is now completely separated from it, with a lantern we

might descend into the great Kentucky Mammoth Cave of iis stomach. But
letus hold on here by this tooth, and jook about us where we are. What

a really beautiful and chaste-looking mouth! from floor to ceiling,

fined, or rather papered with a glistening white membrane, glossy as
‘bridal satins.

But come out now, and took at this portentous fower jaw, which seems
{ike the fong narrow lid of an immense snuf-box, with the hinge at ane
end, instead of one side. you pry tup., so as to get itoverhead,

and expose its rows of teeth, it seems a terrific portcaliis; and such,

‘alas! it proves to many a poor wight in the fishery, upon whom these
‘spikes fall with impating force. But far more terible is itto behold,

when fathoms dawn in ihe sea, you see some sulky whale, floating these
suspended, with his prodigious jaw, some fiteen feet long, hanging
straight down at ight-angies with his body, for all the wostd like &

ship's jfo-boom. This whale is not dead: he is only dispirited; out oF

sorls, perhaps; hypochandiriac; and so Supine, that the hinges ofthis,

Jaw have relaxed, leaving him there in that ungainly sort of plight, a
reproach to all his bibe, who must, no doubt, imprecate lock jaws upon
‘rie,

In most cases this lower jaw—being easily unhinged by a practised
artist_is disengaged and hoisted on deck for the purpose of extracting
the ivory teeth, and furnishing a supply of that hard white whalebone
with which the fishermen fashion all sorts af curious articles,

inoluding canes, umbrella-sincks, and handles to riding-whips.

With a tong, weary hoist the jaw is dragged on board, as ifitwere an
anchor. and when the proper time comes—some few days after the other
work—Queequeg, Daggoo, and Tashlego, being all accomplished dentists,
are set to drawing teeth. With a keen cuting-spade, Queequeg lances

the gums: then the jaw is iashed down to ringbolts, and a tackle being
‘igged from alot they drag out these teeth, as Michigan oxen drag

stumps of old oaks out of wild wood lands, There are generally

forty-two teeth in all: in old whales, much worn down, but undecayed,

nor filed after our artificial fashion. The Jaw is afterwards sawn
