‘ub, knocked down an oarsman, and smiting the sea, disappeared in ts
depths.

For an instant, he tranced boats crew stood stil; then tumed. "The
ship? Great God, where ig the shin?" Soon they thraugh dim, bewildering
‘mediums saw her sidelong fading phantom, as in the gaseous Fata
Morgana: only the uppermost masts out of water; while fixed by
infatuation, o fidelity, oF fate, to their once lofty perches, the

pagan harpoongers stil maintained their sinking fookouts on the sea,

And now, concentric circles seized the tone boat itself, and all its

‘crew, and each floating oar, and every lance-pole, and spinning,
animate and inanimate, all ound and round in one vortex, carried the
smaliast chip of the Pequod out of sight

ut as the last whelmings intesmixingly poured themselves over the
sunken head ofthe indian af the mainmast, leaving a few inches of the
erect spar yet visible, together with long streaming yards of the fag,
which calmly undutated, with ironical coincidings, aver the destroying
bitlows they almost touched;—at hat instant, a red arm and a hammer
hovered backwardly uptifted in the open air, in the sct of naiting the

‘tag faster and yet faster ta the subsiding spar. A sky-hawk that
tauntingly had followed the main-tuck downwards from its natural home
among the stars, pecking at the flag, and incommoding Tashtego there.
this bird now chanced to intercept its broad fluttering wing bebween

the hammer and the wood; and simultaneously feeling that etherial
thrill,the submerged savage beneath, in his death-gasp, kept his
‘hammer frozen there; and so the bird ofheaven, with archangel
shrieks, and his imperial heak thrust upwards, and his whole captive
‘orm folded in the flag of Ahab, went down with his ship, which, fike
Satan, would not sink to hell ti! she had dragged a living part of

heaven along with her, and helmeted herself with it

Now small fowls flew screaming over the yet yawning gulf, a sullen
white surTbeat against its steep sides; then all collapsed, and the
‘great shroud afthe sea rolled on as itrolled five thousand years ago.

Epilogue
“AND FONLY AM ESCAPED ALONE TO TELL THEE” Job.

‘The drama's done. Why then here does any one step forth?_Because one
id survive the wreck.

so chanced, that after the Parsee’s disappearance, Lwas he whom the
Fates ordained to take the place of Ahab's bowsman, when that bowsman
assumed the vacant post, the same, who, when on the last day the three
‘men were tossed from out of the rocking boat, was dropped astern. So,
floating an the margin ofthe ensuing scene, and in full sight oft,

when the haifsnent suction of the sunk ship reached me, Fwas then, but
