a white one, of equal developments, though of dissimilar colour, driven
in one eccentric span. But while hapiess Dough-Boy was by nature dul!
and tofpid in bis intellects, Pip, though over tender-hearted, was at
bottom very bright, with that pleasant, genial, jolly brightness:

peculiar to his tribe; a tribe, which ever enjoy all holidays and

‘festivities with finer, freer retish than any other race. For blacks,

the year's calendar should show naught but three hundred and sixty-five
Fourth of Jutys and New Year's Days. Nor smile so, while harite that

this litle black was briiant, for even blackness has its briflancy,

‘behold yon lustrous ebony, paneled in king's cabinets. But Pip loved

life, and ail ife's peaceable securities; so that the panic-strking
business in which he had somehow unaccountably become entrapped, had
‘most sadly blurred his brightness: though, as ere tong will be seen,

what was thus temporary subdued in hin, in the end was destined to be
lurily diumined by strange wild fires, that fctitousty showed him

‘offto ten times the natural fustre with which in his native Tolland

‘County in Connecticut, he had once enlivened many a fiddier's frotican
the green; and at melodious even-tide, with his gay ha-hat had turned
the round horizon into one star-belled tambourine. So, though in the
clear air of day, suspended against a biue-veined neck, the
pure-watered diamond drop wil healthful glow; yel, when the cunning
jewoller would show you the diamond in its most impressive fustre, he
{ays it against a gloomy ground, and then lights itup, not by the sun,

but by some unnatural gases. Then come out those flery effulgences,
internally super®; then the eviL-blazing diamond, onee the divinest
symbol ofthe crystal skies, ooks tike some erown-jewel stolen from

the King of Hell. But et us to the story

came to pass, thatin the ambergris affair Stubb's after-oarsman
‘chanced so to sprain his hand, as for a time to become quite maimed:
and, temporarily, Pip was put into his place.

‘The fst time Stubb towered with him, Pip evinced much nervousness;
but happily, for that time, escaped close contact with the whale; and
therefore came off not attogetter discreditably, though Stubb observing
‘im, took care, afterwards, to exhort him to cherish his courageousness,
to the utmost, for he might offen find itneedtu

Now upon the second towering, the boat paddied upon the whale: and as.
the fish received the darted iron, it gave its customary rap, which
‘happened, inthis instance, tobe right under poor Fip’s seat, The
involuntary constemation ofthe moment caused him to leap, paddie in
‘hand, out ofthe boat, and In such a way, that partof the slack whale
tine coming against his chest, he breasted it overboard with him, so as
to become entangled in it, when at {ast plumping into the water. That
instant the stricken whale started on a fierce Tun, the line swift
straightened: and presiof poor Pip came ail foaming up to the chooks of
the boat, remorselessly dragged there by the jine, which had taken
several turns around his chest and neck.
