Seems it credibie that by three such thin threads the great Leviathan
was suspended lke the big weight to an eight day clock Suspended? and
to whal? To three bits of board. is this the creature of whom itwas

once so triumphantly said—“Canst thou fit his skin with barbed irons?

or his head with ish-spears? The sword af him that ayeth at him

sannot hold, the spear, the dart, nor the habergean: he esteemeth iron

as straw; the amow cannot make him flee, darts are counted as stubbte;
he taugheth al the shaking of a spear” This the creature? this he? Obf
that unfulfiments should follow the prophets. For with the strength of

a thousand thighs in his tal, Leviathan had run his head under the
‘mountains of the sea, to hide him from the Pequod's fish-spears!

In that stoping afternoon suntight, the shadows that the three boats
sentdown beneath the surface, must have been long enough and broad
‘enough to shade half Xerxes’ army. Who can tell how appalling to the
wounded whale must have heen such huge phantoms filing over his head?

“Stand by, men; he stirs,” cried Starbuok, as the three ines suddenly
vibrated in the water, distinely conducting upwards to them, as by
‘magnetic wires, the fife and death throbs of the whale, so that every
‘arsman felt hem in his seat. The next moment, relieved in great part
‘fom the downward strain at the bows, the boals gave a sudden bounce
upwards, as a smail Icefield will, when a dense herd of white bears are
soared from itinto the sea

“Haul inf Haul inf oried Starbuck again; “he's rising.”

‘The tines, of which, hardly an instant before, not one hand's breadth
could have been gained, were now in Jang quick coife flung back all
‘dripping into the boats, and soon the whale broke water within two
ship's fengths of the hunters.

His motions plainly denoted his extreme exhaustion. in most tand
‘animals there are ceriain valves or food-gates in many of thelr veins,
whereby when wounded, the blood Is In some degree at ieast instantly
shutoffin certain directions. Not so with the whale; one ofwhose
peculiarities itis to have an entire non-valvular structure of the
blood-vessets, so thal when pierced even by so small a pointas a
‘harpoon, a deadly drain is at once begun upon his whole arterial
system; and when this is heightened by the extraordinary pressure of
water at a great distance below the surface, his fife may be said to

pour from him in incessant streams. Yet eo vast is the quantity of

blood in him, and so distant and numerous its interior fountains, that

‘he will keep thus bleeding and bleeding for a considerable period: even
az in a drought a river will flow, whose source is in the well-eprings

‘of far-off and undiscemible hills. Even now, when the boats pulled

upon this whale, and periously drew over his swaying fukes, and the
tances were darted into him, they were followed by steady jets from the
new made wound, which kept continually playing, while the natural
spouthole in his head was only at intervals, however rapid, sending
