‘The rest of his body was so streaked, and spatied, and marbled with the
same shrouded hue, that, in the end, he had gained his distinetive
appellation ofthe White Whale; a name, indeed, iteratly justified by

his vivid aspect, when seen gliding at high noon through a dark blue
sea, leaving a milky-way wake of creamy foam, ail spangled with golden
gleamings,

Nor was it his unwonted magnitude. nar his remarkable hue, nor yet fis,
deformed tower jaw, that so much invested the whale with naturat

terror, as thal unexampied, inteligent malignity which, according to
specific accounts, he had over and over again evinoed in his assaults
More than al his treacherous retreats stuck more of dismay than
peshaps aught eise. For, when swimming before his exulting pursuers,
with every apparent symptom of aiarar, he had several times been known
to turn round suddenly, and, bearing down upon them, either stave their
‘boats to splinters, or drive them back in consternation to their ship.

Atready several fatalities had attended his chase. But though similar
disasters, however litle bruited ashore, were by no means unusual in
the fishery; yet in most instanoes, such seemed the White Whale's
{infernal aforethought of ferocity, that every dismembering or death

that he caused, was not wholly regarded as having been infliced by an
uninteligent agent.

Judge, then, to what pitches ofinflamed, distracted fury the minds of
his more desperate hunters wese impelled, when amid the chips of chewed
boats, and ihe sinking limbs of torn comrades, they swam aut of the

white curds ofthe whale's direful wrath into the serene, exasperating
sunfight, that snvled an, as ifata birth or a bridal

His three boats stove around him, and oars and men both whisting in the
‘eddies; one capiain, seizing the tine-knife from his broken prow, had
dashed at the whale, as an Arkansas dualist at his foe, blindly

seeking with a six inch blade to reach the fathom-deep fife of the

whale, That captain was Ahab. And then itwas, that suddenly sweeping
his siokle-shaped tower jaw beneath him, Moby Dick had reaped away
Anab's eg, as a mower a blade of grass in the fleld. No turbaned Turk,
0 fired Venetian of Malay, could have smote him with more seeming
‘malice. Small reason was there to doubt, then, that ever since that
almost fatal encounter, Ahab had cherished a wild vindictiveness

against the whale, ail the more fell for hat in his frantic morbidness

he al last came to identify with him, not only all his bodily woes, but

ail his intelectual and spiritual exasperations. The White Whale swam
before him as the monomaniae incarnation of ail those malicious
agencies which some deep men feel eating in them, til they are left
living on with haif'a heart and half a jung, That intangible matignity
which has been from the beginning; to whose dominion even the modern
‘Christians ascribe one-haif ofthe worlds; which the ancient Ophites of
the east reverenced in their statue devit.—Ahab did not fall down and
‘worship it ike them; but delitously transferring iis idea to the
