“Moby Dick" eried Don Sebastian; ‘St. Dominic! Sic saitor, but do
whales have christenings? Whom call you Moby Dick?

“Avery white, and famous, and most deadly immortal monster, Don:—but
that would be too tong a story.

“How? how?" cried ail the young Spaniards, crowding

“Nay, Dons, Dons—nay, nay! Feannot rehearse that now. Let me get more
into the air, Sir.

~The chichal the chicha! eried Don Pedro; ‘our vigorous friend looks.
‘aint-—fil up his empty glass!

“No need, gentlemen; one moment, and ! proceed. —Now, gentlemen, so
suddenly perceiving the snowy whale within fly yards of the
‘ship—forgetful of the compact among the crew—in the excitement of the
‘moment, the Teneriffe man had instinctively and involuntarily Hted

‘his voice for the monster, though for some lite time past ithad been
plainly beheld from the three sullen mast-heads. Ail was naw a phrensy,
“The White Whale—the White Whale! was the cry from captain, mates, and
harpooneers, who, undeterred by fearful rumours, were all anxious to
capture so famous and precious a fish; white the dogged crew eyed
askance, and with curses, the appalling beauty ofthe vast miky mass,
that ft up by a horizontal spangfing sun, shifled and glistened like
siving opal in the blue morning sea. Gentlemen, a strange fatality
pervades the whole career of these events, as if verily mapped out
before the world iiself was charted. The mutinger was the bowsman of
the mate, and when fast a a fish, it was his duty to sit next him,

while Radney stood up with his {ance in the prow, and haul in or

slacken the tine, at the word of command, Moreover, when the four boats
were lowered, the mate's got the start, and none howled more fercely
with delight than did Steetkit, as he strained at his oar. After a

sli pull, heir harpoonees got fast, and, spear in hand, Radney

sprang fo the bow. He was always 2 furious man, it seems, in a boat.

‘And now his bandaged cry was, to beach him on the whale’s topmost back.
Nothing loath, his bowsman hauled him up and up, through a blinding
foam that bent two whitenesses together. il of a sudden the boat

struck as against a sunken ledge, and keeling over, spitied out the
standing mate. That instant, as he fell on the whale's slippery back,

the boat righted, and was dashed aside by the swell, while Radney was
tossed aver inta the sea, on the other flank of the whale. He struck

out through the spray, and, far an Instant, was dimly seen through that
veil, wildly seeking to remove himself from the eye of Moby Dick. But

the whale rushed round in a sudden maetstom, seized the swimmer
between his jaws: and rearing high up with him, plunged headiong again,
and went down,

“Meantime, at the fist tap of the boat's bottom, the Lakeman had
slackened the fine, so as to drop aster from the whiripaot; calmly
