twas a cloudy, sultry afternoon; the seamen were lazily iounging

about the decks, or vacantly gazing over into the lead-coloured waters.
‘Queequeg and {were mildly employed weaving what is called a sword-mat,
{or an additional lashing to our boat. So still and subdued and yet
somehow preluding was all the scene, and such an incantation of reverie
4urked in the air, that each silent sailor seemed resolved into his own
invisibte self.

twas the attendant or page of Queequeg, white busy atthe mat. ASE
kept passing and repassing the fifing or woof of martine between the
tong yams ofthe warp, using my own hand for the shuttle, and as
‘Queequeg, standing sideways, ever and anon slid his heavy oaken sword
between the threads, and idly looking off upon the water, carelessly

‘and unthinkingly drove home every yarn: I say so strange a dreaminess,
did there then reign ail over the ship and all aver the sea, only

broken by the intermitting dull sound of the sword, that it seemed as
ifthis were the Loom of Time, and | myself were a shuttle mechanically
‘weaving and weaving away at the Fates. There lay the fixed threads of
the warp subject to but one single, ever retuming, unchanging

vibration, and that vibration merely enough to admit of the crosswise
interblending of other threads with its own. This warp seemed
necessity; and here, thought t, with my own hand | ply my own shuttle
and weave my own destiny into these unatterable threads. Meantime,
‘Queequeg's impulsive, indifferent sword, sometimes hiting the woof
slantinaly, or srookedly, or strongly, or weakly, as the case might be:

and by this difference in the concluding blow producing a corresponding
‘eontrast in the final aspect ofthe completed fabric; this savage's

‘sword, thought f, which thus finally shapes and fashions both warp and
woof this easy, indifferent sword must be chance—aye, chance, free
will and necessity—nowise incompatibie—all intenweavingly working
together. The straight warp of necessity, not to be swerved from its
ultimate course—its every alternating vibration, indeed, oniy tending

to that; ree wil stil free to ply her shuttle between given threads;

‘and chanee, though restrained in its play within the right ines of
necessity, and sideways in its motions directed by fee will, though

thus prescribed to by both, chance by tums rules either, and has the

‘ast featuring biow at events,

‘Thus we were weaving and weaving away when I started ata sound so
strange, long drawn, and musically wild and unearthly, that the bail of
free wil dropped from my hand, and t stood gazing up at the clouds
whence that voice dropped like a wing. High aloft in the crass-trees
‘was that mad Gay-Header, Tashtego. His body was reaching eagedly
forward, his hand stretched out like a wand, and at brief sudden
intervals he continued his cries. To be sure the same sound was that
very moment pethaps being heard all over the seas, from hundreds of
whalemen's fook-ouls perched as high in the air, but from few of those.
‘ungs could that accustomed old ory have derived such a marvelous
‘cadence as from Tashtego the Indian's.
