cruising now hard upon thee years, and thou hast not raised a whale
yel. Whales are scafce as hen's teeth whenever thou art up here.”
Perhaps they were: or perhaps there might have been shoals of them in
the far horizon; but taled into such an opium-tike tislessness of

vacant, unconscious reverie is this absent-minded youth by the blending
cadence of waves with thoughis, that at last he joses his identity,

takes the mystic ocean at his fest far the visible image of that deep,

blue, bottomless soul, pervading mankind and nature; and every etrange,
aif-seen, gliding, beautiful thing that eludes him: every
dimty-discovered, uprising fin of some undisceribie form, seems to hint
the embodiment of those elusive thoughts that only people the soul by
continually fitting through it. tn this enchanted mood, thy spirit

‘ebbs away fo whenoe itcame; becomes diffused through time and space:
like Cranmer's sprinkled Pantheistie ashes, forming at last a part of
‘every shore the round glabe over.

‘There is no ife in thee, now, except that rocking fife imparted by a
gently rolling ship; by her, borrowed from the sea, by the sea, from

the inscrutable tides of Cod. But while this sleep, this dreanvis on

ye, move your foot or hand an inch: slip your hold at aif; and your
identity comes back in horror. Over Descartian vortices you hover. And
pethaps, at mid-day, in the fairest weather, with one haif-throtied
shriek you drop through that transparent air into the summer sea, no
more to rise for ever. Heed itwell, ye Pantheists!

CHAPTER 88, The Quarier-Deck.
(Enter Ahab: Then, af_)

twas nota great while after the affair ofthe pipe, that one moming
shortly after breakfast, Ahab, as was his wont, ascended the
cabin-gangway to the deck. There most sea-captains usually walk at that
hour, as county gentlemen, after the same meal, take a fev tums in

the garden.

Soon his steady, ivory stride was heard, as to and fio he paced his old
rounds, upon planks go fariiiar to his tread, that they were all over
dented, fike geotogical stones, with the peeutiar mark of his walk. Did
you fixedly gaze, 100, upon that sibbed and dented brow: there aiso,
you would see stil stranger foot-prints—the foot prints of iis one
unsleeping, ever-pacing thought.

But on the occasion in question, those dents fooked deeper, even as his,
nervous step that moming efta deeper mark, And, so full of his

thought was Ahab. that at every uniform turn that he made, now at the
‘main-mast and now at the binnacte, you could almost see that thought
‘umm in fim as he tamed, and pave in him as he paced; so completely
possessing him, indeed, thatit all but seemed the inward mould of
every outer movement.
