the unwearied verdure. Oh, busy weaver! unseen weavert—pause!—one
wordl—whither flows the fabric? what pataoe may it deck? wherefore all
these ceaseless tollings? Speak, weaver!—stay thy hand!—but one single
word with thee! Nay—the shuttle Ries—the figures float from forth the
fom: the freshet-rushing carpet for ever slides away. The weaver-god,

be weaves: and by thal weaving is he deafened, that he hears no mortal
voice; and by that humming, we, too, who {ook an the oom are deafened:
and only when we escape i shall we hear the thousand voices that speak
through it. For even so itis in aH material factories. The spoken

words that are inaudible among the flying spindles; those same words
are plainly heard without the walls, bursting fram the opened

easements. Thereby have villsinies been detected. Ah, mortal then, be
eedi for so, in all this din ofthe great world's toom, thy.

subllest thinkings may be overheard afer

Now, amid the green, ife-restiess loom of that Arsacidean wood, the
great, white, worshipped skeleton lay iounging—a gigantic idler! Yet,

as the ever-woven verdant warp and woof intermixed and hummed around
‘im, the mighty idler seemed the cunning weaver; himself al woven over,
with the vines: every month assuming greener, fresher verdure, but
‘himself a skeleton, Life folded Death; Death revised Life: the grim

god wived with youthful Life, and begat him curly-headed glories,

Now, when with royal Tranguo visited this wondrous whale, and saw the
‘skull an attar, and the artificial smoke ascending fram where the real

jethad issued, [marvelled that the king should regard a chapel as an

object of vertu. He faughed. But more I marvelied that the priests

should swear that smoky jet of his was genuine. To and fro | paced

before this skeleion—brushed the vines aside—broke through the ribs—and
with a ball of Arsacidean twine, wandered, eddied tong anid its many
winding, shaded colonnades and arbours. But soon my ine was out, and
following it back, Femerged fram the opening where Fentered. | saw no.
fiving thing within; naught was there but bones,

‘Cutting me a green measuring-rod, tance more dived within the
skeleton, From their arrow-stit in the skull the priests pereived me
taking the altitude of the final rib, “How now? they shouted, "Dar'st

thou measure this our god! That's for us." “Aye, priests —well, how long
do ye make him, then?” But hereupon a fleros contest rose among them,
‘concerning feet and inches: they cracked each other's sconces with
their yard-sticks—the great skull echoed—and seizing that lucky chance,
| quielty concluded my own admeasurements,

‘These admeasurements !now propose to set before you. But frst, be it
recorded, that, in this matter, tam not free to utter any fancied
‘measurement! please. Because there are skeleton authorities you can
‘eferto, to test my accuracy. There is a Leviathanic Museum, they tell
‘me, in Hull, England, one ofthe whaling parts of that country, where
they Rave some fine specimens of fin-backs and other whates. Likewise,
Fhave heard that in the museum of Manchester, in New Hampshire, they
