Asctic whaters; and which by the means of many radiating side timbers
inserted into it, serves to brace the ship against the icy concussions.
pf those battering seas.

Now these three mates—Starbuck, Stubb, and Flask, were momentous men.
‘They itwas who by universal prescription commanded thee of the
Pequod's boats as heademen. in that grand order of battle in which
‘Captain Ahab would probably marshal his forces to descend on the

whales, these three headsmen were as capiains of companies. Or, being
armed with their long keen whaling spears, they were a8 a picked trio
oftancers, even as the harpooneers were fingers of javeilns,

‘And since in this famous fishery, each mate or headsman, like a Gothic
Knight of old, is always accompanied by his boat-steerer or harpooneer,
who in certain conjunctures provides him with a fresh lance, when the
former one has been badly twisted, or e!bowed in the assault; and
‘moreover, as there generally subsists between the two, a close intimacy
and friendliness; itis therefore but meet, that in this place we set

down who the Pequod's harpooneers were, and to what headsman each of
them belonged

First of al was Queequeg, whom Starbuck, the chief mate, had selected
for his squire. But Queequea is already known,

Next was Tashtege, an unmixed Indian from Gay Head, the most westery
promontory of Martha's Vineyard, where there stil exisis the last
Teronant of a village of red men, which has long suppiied the
neighboring island of Nantucket with many of her most daring
hampooneers. In the fishery, they usually go by the generic name of
‘Gay-Headers. Tashtego's tong, lean, sable hair, his high cheek bones,
‘and black rounding eyes—for an Indian, Oriental in their fargeness, but
Antarcticin their glitering expression—all this sufficiently

procisimed him an inheritor of the unvitiated blood af those proud
‘warrior huntets, who, in quest ofthe great New England moose, had
scoured, bow in hand, the aboriginal forests ofthe main. But no longer
snuffing in the trail of the wild beasts ofthe woodland, Tashtego now
hunted in the wake of the great whales of the sea: the unesring harpoon
ofthe son fity replacing the infallible arrow of the sires. To ook

at the tawny brawn of his lithe snaiy fimbs, you would almost have
credited the superstitions of some of the eatlier Puritans, and
halt-believed thie wild Indian to be a gon of the Prince of the Powers
ofthe Air. Tashlege was Stubb the second mate's squire

‘Third among the harpooneers was Daggoo, a gigantic, caal-black
negro-savage, with a ion-like tread—an Ahasuerus fo behold. Suspended
‘rom his ears were two golden hoops. so large that the sailors called

them ring-bolts, and would taik of securing the top-sail halyards to

them, In his youth Daggoo had voluntarily shipped on board of a whaler,
{ying in a tonely hay on his native coast, And never having been
anywhere in the world but in Africa, Nantucket, and the pagan harbors
