‘seemed dull of hearing on that important subject, uniess considered
‘ram his own point of view; and, in the seeond place, he did not mare
than one third understand me, couch my ideas simply as t would; arc,
finally, he no doubt thought he knew a good deal more about the true
religion than t did, He looked at me with a sort of condescending

concern and compassion, as though he thought it a great pity that such

a sensible young man should be so hopelessly fost io evangelical pagan
piety.

Atiast we rose and dressed; and Queequeg, taking a prodigiously hearty
breakfast of chowders of all sorts, so that the landlady should not

make much profit by reason of his Ramadan, we saitied out to board the
Pequod, sauntering slang, and picking our teeth with halibut bones.

CHAPTER 18. His Mark

As we were walking down the end of the wharf towards the ship, Queequeg
carrying his harpoon, Captain Peteg in his gruff voice loudly hailed us

rom his wigwam, saying he had not suspected my friend was a cannibal,
and furthermore announcing that he fet no cannibats on board that

craft, uniess they previously produced their papers.

“What do you mean by that, Captain Peleg?” said |, now jumping on the
bulwarks, and feaving my comrade standing on the whart

“mean,” he replied, “he must show his papers.”

 

“Yes,” said Captain Bildad in his hollow voiee, sticking his head from.
behind Peleg's, out of the wigwam. “He must show that he's converted.
Son of darkness,” he added, turning to Queequeg, “art thou at present
in communion with any Christian church?”

"Why." said t,"he's a member of he first Congregational Church.” Here
bbe it said, that many tatiooed savages salting in Nantucket ships at
ast come fo be canveried into the churches,

“First Congregational Church,” ctied Bildad, “what! that worships in
Deacon Deuteronomy Coleman's meeting-house?” and so saying, taking out
hhis epeciacies, he mubbed them with his great yellow bandana

handkerchier, and putting them on very carefully, came out of the

wigwam, and leaning silly over the Dulwarks, took 2 good long fook at
‘Queequeg,

"How long hath he been a member?” he then said, turning to me; “not
very ong, trather guess, young man.”

“No, said Peleg, “and he hasn't been baptized right either, orit
would have washed some ofthat devi's blue off his face
