ot me. And therefore three cheers for Nantucket, and come a stove boat
and stove bedy when they wil, for stave my soul, Jove himself cannot.

‘CHAPTER 8, The Pulpit

Fhad not been seated vary tong ere a man ofa ceriain venerable
tobustness entered; immediately as the storm-peited door lew back upon
admitting him, a quick regaraful eyeing of him by aif the congregation,
sufficiently attested that this fine old man was the chaplain. Yes, it

was the famous Father Maple, eo called by the whalemen, among whom he
was 8 very great favourite. He had been a sailor and a harpooneer in

‘his youth, but for many years past had dedicated his tife to the

‘ministry. Atthe time |now write of, Father Mapple was in the hardy

winter of a healthy ofd age; that sort of old age which seems merging

inio 8 second Rowering youth, for among al the fissures of is,

wrinkles, there shone ceriain mild gleams of a newly developing

‘bloom —the spring verdure peeping forth even beneath February's snow. No
one having previously heard his history, could for the first ime

behold Father Mapple without the utmost interest, because there were
certain engrafted clerical pecullarities about him, imputable to that
adventurous maritime fife he had led. When he entered lobserved that

he carried no umbrella, and certainly had not come In his camiage, for

‘is tarpautin hat ran down with meting sleet, and his great pilot

cloth jacket seemed almost io drag him to the floor with the weight of

the water ithad absorbed. However, hal and caat and overshoes were one
by one removed, and hung up in a tittle space in an adjacent comer,

when, artayed in a decent suit, he quietly approached the pulpit,

Like most old fashioned puipits, twas a very lofty one, and since a
regular stairs fo such a height would, by tts jong angle with the

fioor, seriously contract the already email area ofthe chapel, the
architect, it seemed, had acted upon the hint of Father Mapple, and
finished the puipit without a stairs, substituting 2 perpendicular side
adder, like those used in mounting a ship roma boat at sea. The wife
‘ofa whaling capiain had provided the chapel with a handsome pair of
red worsted man-ropes for this ladder, which, being itself nicely
headed, and stained with a mahogany cotour, the whole contrivance,
considering what manner of chapel it was, seemed by ao means in bad
taste. Halting for an instant at the foot ofthe ladder, and with both
‘hands grasping the ornamental knobs of the man-rapes, Father Mapple
‘east a ook upwards, and then with a truly saitor-ke fut stil

‘reverential dexterity, hand over hand, mounted the steps as if
ascending the main-iop of his vessel

“The perpendicular parts of this side ladder, as is usually the case
with swinging ones, ware of cloth-covered rope, only the rounds were of
wood, so that at every step there was a joint. Al my frst glimpse of

the pulpit, thad not escaped me that however convenient for a ship,
those joints in the present instance seemed unnecessary. For !wasnet
