‘2asy—only start her like grim death and grinning devils, and raise the
‘buried dead perpendicular out oftheir graves, boys—that's all. Start
hed

"Woo-too! Wa-heel” screamed the Gay-Header In reply, raising some old
war-whoop to the skies; as every oarsman in the strained boat
involuntarily bounced forward with the one tremendous teading stroke
which the eager Indian gave.

But his wild screams were answered by others quite as wild. “Kee-hee!
Kee-hee!" yelled Daggoo, straining forwards and backwards on his seat,
fike a pacing tiger in his cage.

“kal Koo-loo!” howled Queequeg, as if smacking his fips over a
‘mouthful of Grenadier's steak. And thus with oars and yells the keels

cut the sea. Meanwhile, Stubb retaining his piace in the van, sti

encouraged his men to the onset, all the while puffing the smoke from,

‘nis mouth. Like desperadoes they tugged and they strained, tH the

welcome ory was heard—"Siand up, Tashtego!—give itto hin!’ The harpoon
was hurled, “Stem all The oarsmen hacked water; the same moment
something went hot and hissing along every one of thelr wrists, twas

the magioal tine. An instant before, Stubb had swiftly eaught wo

additional turns with it round the foggeThead, whence, by reason ofits
increased rapid circlings, a hempen biue smoke now jetted up and

mingled with the steady fumes from his pine. As the line passed round

and round the loggerhead; so also, just before reaching that point, it
biisteringly passed through and through hoth of Stubb's hands, from

which the hand-cloths, or squares of quilted canvas sometimes wom at
these times, had accidentally dropped. ttwas tike holding an enemy's

sharp two-edged sword by the biade, and that enemy all the time

striving to wrest it out of your eluteh

“Wet the line! wet the fine? cried Stubb to the tub oareman (him
seated by the tub) who, snaiching offhis hat, dashed sea-water into

It* More turns were taken, so that the line began holding its place.

‘The boat now flew through the boiling water ike a shark al fins,

Stubb and Tashtego here changed places—stem for stem—a staggering
business truly in that rocking commotion

“Partly to show the indispensableness of this act, it may here be
stated, that, n the old Dutch fishery, a mop was used to dash the
sunning tine with water, in many other ships, a wooden pigain, or
pailer, is set apart for that purpose. Your hat, however, is the most
convenient.

From the vibrating {ine exlending the entire Jength of the upper part
of the boat, and from its now being more tight than a harpsting, you
would have thought the crafthad two keels —one cleaving the water, the
‘other the sit—as the boat chumed on through both opposing elements at
‘once. A continual cascade played st the hows; a ceaseless whirling eddy
