liself Ultimately the defendants (the crew of another ship} came up
with the whale, struck, Killed, seized, and finally appropriated it

before the very eyes of the plaintifs. And when those defendants were
remanstrated with, their captain snapped his fingers in the pisintifs’
teeth, and assured them that by way of doxology to the deed he had
‘done, he would now reiain theit fine, harpoons, and boat, which had
remained attached to the whale at the time ofthe seizure, Wherefore
the plaintiffs now sued for the recovery of the value of their whale,

Jing, harpoons, and boat

Mr. Erskine was counsel for he defendants; Lord ENenborough was the
judge. In the course of the defence, the witty Erskine went on to

ilustrate his position, by alluding ta a recentesim. con. case,

wherein a gentleman, after in vain trying to bridie his wife's

viciousness, had af last abandoned her upon the seas of ife; butin

the course of years, repenting of that siep, he instituted an action to
Fecover possession of her. Erskine was on the otter side; and he then
supported it by saying, that though the gentleman had originally,
‘harpooned the lady, and had once had her fast, and only by reason of
the great stress of her plunging viciousness, had at fast abandoned

ther, yet abandan her he did, so that she became a foose-fish; and
therefore when a subsequent gentleman fe-harpooned her, the fady then
became that subsequent gentleman's property, along with whatever
‘harpoon might have been found sticking in her.

Now in the present case Erskine contended that the examples of the
whale and the lady were reciprocally Hlustrative of each other.

‘These pleadings, and the counter pleadings, being duly heard, the very
famed judge in set terms decided, to wit—That as for the boat, he
awarded it to the plaintifis, because they had merely abandoned itto
‘save their fives; bal that with regard to the controverted whale,

harpoons, and line, they belonged to the defendants; the whale, because
twas a Loase-Fish at the time of the final capture; and the harpoons

and fine because when the fish made off with ther it (ihe fish}

‘Boquired a property in those articles; and henoe anybody who afterwards
took the fish had a right o them. Now the defendants afterwards took

the fish, ergo, the aforesaid articies were theirs

A.common man fooking at this decision ofthe very teamed Judge, might
possibly abject to it. But ploughed up to the primary rock of the

‘matter, the two great principles laid down in the twin whaling taws
previously quoted, and applied and elucidated by Lord Ellenborough in
the above cited case; these two laws touching Fast-Fish and Loose-Fish,
1 say, will on reflection, be found the fundamentals of all human
Jurisprudence; for notwithstanding its complicated tracery of

‘sculpture, the Temple ofthe Law, ike the Temple of the Philistines,

‘has but two props to stand on,

Is itnot a saying in every one's mouth, Possession is half of the taw:
