‘commander to make the great passage southwards, double Cape Hom, and
then running down sixty degrees oflatitude arrive in the equatorial
Pacificin time to crulee there. Therefore, he must wait for the next
‘ensuing season. Yet the premature hour of the Pequod's sailing had,
peshaps, been correctly selected by Ahab. with a view to this very
complexion of things. Because, an interval of three hundred and

shxty-five days and nights was before him an interval which, instead
ofimpatiently enduring ashore, he would spend in a miscellaneous hunt
iby chance the White Whale, spending his vacation in seas far remote
{tom his periodical feeding-grounds, should turn up his wrinkled brow
offthe Persian Gulf, or in the Bengal Bay, or China Seas, or in any

other waters haunted by his race. Sa thal Monsoons, Pampas,
Nor-Westers, Harmatians, Trades, any wind but the Levanter and Simoon,
might blow Moby Dick inte the devious zig-zag world-cirle of the
Pequod's circummavigating wake.

But granting ail this; yet, regarded discreetly and coolly, seems it
‘not but a mad idea, this: that in the broad boundless ecean, one

solitary whale, even if encountered, should be thought capabie of
individual recognition from his hunter, even as a white-bearded Mutt

in the thronged thoroughfares of Constantinople? Yes. For the peculiar
snew-white brow of Moby Dick, and his snow-white hump, could not but be
unmistakable. And have I not tallied the whale, Ahab would mutter to
pimseif, as alter poring over his charts til fong after midnight he

would throw himself back in reveries—tatlied him, and shall he escape?
His broad fins are bored, and scalloped out like a fost sheep's east

And here, his mad mind would run on In a breathless race; til a

‘weariness and faintness of pondering came over hiny, and in the open air
ofthe deck he would seek to recover his strength, An, God! what

‘ranees of torments does that man endure who is consumed with one
unachieved revengeful desire. He sieeps with clenched hands, and wakes
with his own bloody nails in his paims,

‘Often, when forced from his hammock by exhausting and inlolerably vivid
dreams of the night, which, resuming his own intense thoughts through
the day, carried them on amid a clashing of phrensies, and whirled them
sound and round and round in his blazing brain, til the very throbbing

of his ife-spot became insufferable anguish; and when, as was
sometimes the case, these spiritual throes In him heaved his being up
from its base, and a chasm seemed opening in him, from which forked
flames and fightnings shot up, and accursed fiends beckoned him ta leap
down among them; when this hell in himseif yawned beneath him, 3 wild
cory would be heard through the ship; and with glaring eyes Ahab would
burst from his state Tom, as though escaping from a bed that was on

fire. Yet these, perhaps, instead of being the unsuppreasable symptoms
of some latent weakness, or fight at his own resolve, were but the
piainest tokens ofits intensity. For, at such times, stazy Ahab, the
scheming, unappeasedly steadtast hunter of the white whale; this Ahab
that had gone to his hammock, was not the agent that so caused him to
‘burst from it in horror again. The latter was the etesnal, ving
