density ofthe crowd of reposing whales, more immediately surrounding
the embayed axis of the herd, no possible chance of escape was at
present afforded us. We must watch for a breach in the fiving wall that
‘hermmed us in; the wail that had onty admitted us in order to shut us

up. Keeping al the centre ofthe take, we were occasionally visited by
small tame cows and calves; the women and children of this routed host.

Now, inelusive ofthe occasional wide intervals between the revolving
outer cites, and inclusive of the spaces between the various pods in
any ane of those circles, the entire area at this juncture, embraced by

the whole multitude, must have contained at east two or three square
‘miles. At any tale—though indeed such a test at such a time might be
daceptive—spoutings might be discovered from our iow boat thal seemed
playing up almost from the rim ofthe horizon. | mention this

sircumstanee, because, as ifthe cows and ealves had been purpasely
Jocked up in this innermost fold; and as iTthe wide extent ofthe herd

‘had hitherto prevented them fram learning the precise cause ofits
stopping; of, possibly, being se young, unsophisticated, and every way
innavent and inexperienced; however it may have been, these smaller
‘whales—now and then visiting our becaimed boat from the margin of the
take—evinced a wondrous fearlessness and confidence, or else a stil
‘becharmed panic which itwas Impossible not to marvel at. Like
household dogs they came snuffing round us, “ight up to our gunwales,
and touching them, tit almost seemed that some spell had suddenly
domesticated them. Queequeg patted their foreheads, Starbuck scratched
their backs with his lance; but fearful of the consequences, for the

time refrained from darting tt

But far beneath this wondrous world upon the susface, another and sti
stranger world met our eyes as we gazed over the side. For, suspended
in those watery vaults, floated the forms of the nursing mathers ofthe
whales, and those that by their enormous girth seamed shortly to become
mothers. The lake, as !have hinted, was to a considerable depth
exceedingly transparent, and as human infants while suckling wi

calmly and fixedly gaze away from the breast, as ifleading two

different lives atthe time; and while yet drawing mortal nourishment,

be stil spiritually feasting upon some unearthly reminiscence;—even 50
id the young ofthese whales seem looking up towards us, but nat at

us, agifwe were but a bit of Guifweed in their new-bom sight.

Floating on their sides, the mothers also seemed quietly eyeing us. One
ofthese title infants, that from certain queer tokens seemed hardly a

day old, might have measured some fourteen feet in length, and some oix
feet in girth. He was a fit frisky. though as yet his body seemed

‘scarce yet Tecovered from that irksome pasition it had so lately

‘occupied in the maternal retioule; where, tal to head, and ail eady

for the final spring, the unbom whale lies bent ike 2 Tarlat's bow.

‘The delicate side-fine, and the palms of his flukes, stil freshly

telained ihe plaited crumpled appearance of a baby's ears newly arrived
from foreign parts.
