‘The Pequod had now swept so nigh to the stranger, that Stubb vowed he
recognised his cutting spade-pole entangied in the lines that were.
knotted round the tail of one ofthese whales.

“There's a pretty fellow, now," he banteringly laughed, standing in the
ship's bows, “there's a jackal for yel Iwoll know thal these Crappoes
of Frenchmen are but poor devils in the fishery: sometimes lowering
their boats for breakers, mistaking them for Sperm Whale spouts; yes,
‘and sometimes sailing from their port with their hold full ofboxes of
tallow candles, and cases of snuffers, foreseeing that all the oll they
‘will get won't be enough to dip the Captain's wick into; aye, we alt
know these things; but look ye, here's a Crappo thats content with
ur feavings, the drugged whale there, mean: aye, and is content too
with soraping the dry bones ofthat other precious fish he has there.
Poor devil! say, pass round a hat, some one, and jet's make him a
present of. litte oll for dear charity's sake. Fos what oi he'll get

‘rom that drugged whale there, wouldn't be fit to bura in a jai no,
notin a condemned cell, And as for the ather whale, why, Ml agree to
{get more off by chopping up and trying out these three masts of ours,
than he'l get from that bundle of bones: though, now that [think of

if, it may contain something worth a good deat more than oil: yes,
‘ambergris, wonder now ifour old man has thought ofthat. t's worth
‘tying. Yes, Fim for” and so saying he started for the

quarter-deck,

By this time the faint air had become @ complete catm: so that whether
oF no, the Pequod was now fairly entrapped in the smell, with no hope

of escaping except by iis breezing up again. Issuing from the cabin,

Stubb now called his boat's crew, and pulled off for the stranger.

Drawing across her bow, he perceived that in accordance with the

fanciful French taste, the upper part of her stem piece was carved in

the tkeness of huge drooping stalk, was painted green, and for

thorns had copper spikes projecting from it here and there; the whale
terminating in a symmetrical folded bulb of a bright sed colour. Upon

her head boards, in large gilt letters, he read “Bouton de
Rose,"—Rose-button, or Rose-bud: and this was the romantic name ofthis
aromatic ship

‘Though Stubp did nat understand the _outan_part ofthe inscription,
yetthe word _rose_, and the bulbous figure-head put together,
sufficiently explained the whole to him.

“A wooden rose-bud, eh?” he cried with his hand to his nose, ‘that will
do very well but how like all creation it smelis!™

Now in order to hold direct cammunication with the people on deck, he
‘had to pull round the bows to the starboard side, and thus come close
to the biasted whale; and so tatk over it.

Artived then at this spot, with one hand stil to his nose. he
