‘calm—trozen calm, this old skull eracks go, ike a glass in which the
contents tumed to ice, and shiver it. And sil this hair is growing

now; this moment growing, and heat must breed it but no, it's tke

that sort of common grass that will graw anywhere, between the earthy
lefts of Greentand ioe or in Vesuvius tava, How the wild winds blow

it: they whip it about me as the torn shreds of split sails ash the

tossed ship they cling to. A vile wind that has no doubt blown ere this,
through prison corridors and ceils, and wards of hospitas, and
ventilated them, and now comes blowing hither as innocent as Reeoes.
‘Out upon ittit's tainted, Were I the wind, Fd blow no more on such a
wicked, miserable world, Fd crawl somewhere to a cave, and slink
there. And yet, tis a noble and heroic thing, the wind! who ever
conquered it? in every fight thas the last and bitterest blow. Run

‘iting at i, and you but run through it. Hal a coward wind that

strikes stark naked men, but wil not stand to receive a single blow.

Even Ahab is a braver thing—a nobier thing than _that_. Would now the
wind but had a body; hut all the things that most exasperate and
‘outrage mortal man, al these things are bodies, but only bodies as
‘objects, not as agents, There's a most special, a most cunning, oh, 2
‘most malicious difference! And yet, !say again, and swear it now, that
there's something ail glorious and gracious in the wind. These warm
Trade Winds, atleast, that in the clear heavens blow straight on, in
strong and steadfast, vigorous mildness; and veer not fom their mark,
however the baset currents of the sea may tum and tack, and mightiest
IMississippies ofthe and swift and swerve about, uncertain where to go
at fast, And by the eternal Poles! these same Trades that so directly
blow my good ship on; these Trades, or something tike them—something 80
unchangeable, and full as strong, blow my keeled sou! along! To it!
Aioft there! Whatd'ye see?”

“Nothing, sir”

“Nothing! and noon at hand! The doubloon goes a-begging! See the sunt
Aye, aye, it must be so. I've aversaited him, How, got the start? Aye,

he's chasing _me_now; natl, _him_—that's had; Imighthave known it,
too. Fool! the linesthe harpoons he's towing. Aye, aye, Ihave run hire
bby last night. About! about! Come down, all ofye, but the regular look
‘outs! Man the braves?”

Steering as she had done, the wind had been somewhat on the Pequod's
quarter, so that now being pointed in the reverse direction, the braced
ship sailed hard upon the breeze as she fechumed the cream in her own
white wake:

“Against the wind he now steers for the open jaw.” murmured Starbuck to
‘himself, as he coiled the new-hauled main-brace upon the rail. "God
keep us, bul already my bones feel damp within me, and fram the inside
wetmy Resh, | misdoubt me that ! disobey my God in obeying him?

“Stand by to sway me up? cried Ahab, advancing to the hempen basket.
