this sinking is caused by an uncommon specific gravity in the fish so
sinking, consequent upon this absence of buoyant matter in him. Butit
is not so. For young whales, in the highest health, and swelling with
noble aspirations, prematurely cut off in the warm fush and May of
‘ife, with all their panting tard about them; even these brawny,

‘buoyant heroes do sometimes sink.

e it said, however, that the Spetm Whale is far jess Hable to this
accident than any other species. Where one of that sort go down, twenty
Right Whates do. This difference in the species is no doubt imputable

in no small degree to the greater quanti of bone in the Right Whale;

his Venetian blinds stone sometimes weighing more than a ton; from this,
incumbrange the Sperm Whale is wholly free. But there are instances
where, aller the lapse of many hours of several days, the sunken whale
again rises, more buoyant than in fife. But the reason ofthis is

obvious. Gases are generated in him, he swells to a prodigious
‘magnitude; becomes a sort of animial balloon. A tine-of-battie ship

‘ould hardly keep him under then. In the Shore Whaling, on soundings,
among the Bays of New Zealand, when a Right Whale gives token of
sinking, they fasten buoys to him, with plenty of rope: go that when

the body has gone down, they know where to took for it when it shall
have ascended again

twas not tong after the sinking of the body that a cry was heard from
the Pequod’s mast-heads, announcing that the Jungirau was again
jowering her boats: though the only spout in sight was that ofa
Fin-Back, belonging ta the species of uncapturable whales, because of
its incredible power of swimming. Nevertheless, the Fin-Back’s spout is
‘80 simitar to the Sperm Whale's, that by unskill fishermen itis

often mistaken for it, And consequently Derick and al bis host were
now in vallant chase of this unnearable brute, The Virgin crowding atl
sail, made after her four young keels, and thus they afl disappeared

far to leeward, stil in bold, hapeful chase.

‘Ohi many are the Fin-Backs, and many are the Dericks, my friend.

‘CHAPTER 82, The Honor and Glory of Whating

‘There are some enterprises in which a careful disordertiness is the
true method.

‘The more [dive into this maties of whaling, and push my sesearches up
to the very spring-head ofit so much the more am timpressed with its
great honorabieness and antiquity, and especiatly when I ind so many
great demi-gods and heroes, prophets ofall sorts, who one way or other
have shed distinction upon it, }am transported with the reflection

that I myself belong, though but subordinately, to so emblazoned a
fraternity
