targely abound, their wondrous voracity can be al times considerably
diminished, by vigorously string them up with sharp whating-spades, a
procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, onty seems to

fickle them into stil greater activity. But it was not thus in the

present case with the Pequod's sharks; though, to be sure, any man
‘unaccustomed to such sights, to have looked over her side that night,

would have aimost thought the whole round sea was ane huge cheese, and
those sharks the maggots in it.

Nevertheless, upon Stubb setting the anchor-watch afler his supper was
concluded: and when, accordingly, Queequeg and a forecastie seaman came
‘on deck, no small excitement was created among the sharks; for

immediately suspending the cutting stages over the side, and lowering

three tanterns, so that they cast iong gleams of ight over the turbid

sea, these two mariners, darting thelr ong whaling-spades, kept up an
incessant murdering of the sharks,” by stking the keen steel deep

{nto their skulls, seemingly their only vital pact Butin the foamy

confusion of their mixed and struggling hosts, the marksmen could not
always hit their mark; and this brought about new revelations of the

‘incredible ferocity of the foe. They viciously snapped, not only at

each other's disemboweiments, but ike flexible bows, bent round, and

bit their own: til hose entrails seemed swallowed over and over again

by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound. Nor was
this all twas unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of these
creatures. A sort of generic oF Panthelstic vitality seemed to turk in

their very joints and hones, after what might be caffed the individual

Ife had departed. Kited and hoisted on deck for the sake of ts skin,

‘one of these sharks almost took poor Queequeg's hand off, when he tied

to shut down the dead lid of his murderous jaw.

‘The whating-spade used for cutting-in is made of the very best stest
is about the bigness of a man's spread hand, and in general shape,
corresponds to the garden implement after which itis named; only its
sides are perfectly fat, and its upper end considerably narrower than
the tower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and when
being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. in its socket, a

sti pole, from twenty to thity feet long, is inserted for a handle,

“Queequeg no care what god made him shark,” said the savage,
agonizinaly Sifting his hand up and down; “wedder Fejee god or
Nantucket god; but de god wat made shark must be one dam ingin”

(CHAPTER 67. Cutting tn

twas @ Saturday night, and such a Sabbath as followed! Ex officio
professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The Ivory Pequod was,
fumed into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You would

‘have thought we were offering up tan thousand red oxen to the sea gods.
