rowing whatever should be expected of him, except under circumstances
‘obvious to any fisherman. [know that this would sometimes involve a
slight oss of speed in the chase; but long experience in various
whatemen of more than ane nation has convinced me that in the vast
majority of fatures in the fishery, ithas not by any means been so

‘much the speed of the whale as the before described exhaustion of the
harpooneer that has caused them.

‘To insure the greatest efficiency in the dart, the harpaoneers ofthis
world must start to their feet from out afidleness, and not from out
afl.

CHAPTER 83, The Crotch.

‘Outof the trunk, the branches grow; out of them, the twigs. So, in
productive subjects, grow the chapters.

‘The crotch alluded to on a previous page deserves independent mention,
fis a notched stick of a peculiar form, some hwo feet in length,

which is perpendicularly inserted inio the starboard qunwale near the
bow, for the purpose of furnishing a rest for the wooden extremity of

the harpoon, whose other naked, barbed end slopingly projects from the
prow. Thereby the weapon is instantly at hand to its hurler, who
snatches itup as readily rom its rest as s backwoodsman swings his
nifle from the wall tis customary to have two harpoons reposing ia

the crotch, respectively called the fist and second irons.

But these two harpoons, each by ts own cord, are both connected with
the line; the object being this: to dart them both, if possible, one
instanty after the ofher Into the same whale; so thatif, in the

‘coming drag, one should draw out, the other may still retain a hold. i
ig. doubling of the chances. Butt very offen happens that owing to

the instantaneous, violent, convulsive running af the whale upon
receiving the frst ion, it becomes impossible for the harpooneert,
however lightning-tike in his movements, to pitch the second iron into
him. Nevertheless, as the second iron is already connected with the
Jine, and the line is cunning, hence that weapon must, at all events,

be anticipatingly tossed oul of the boat, somehow and somewhere, else
the most terible jeopardy would involve ail hands. Tumbied into the.
‘water, it accordingly isin such cases: the spare colls of box tine
{mentioned in a preceding chapter) making this feat, in most instances,
prudently practicable. But this critical act is not aways unattended

with the saddest and most fatal casualties,

Furthermore: you must know that when the second iron is thrown
‘overboard, it thenceforth becomes a dangling, sharp-edged terror,
skittishly curvetting about both boat and whale, entangting the tines,
or cutting them, and making a prodigious sensation in all directions.
Nor, in general, is it possible to seoure it again until the whale is,
