“Hear him, hear him now,” cried Pefeg, marching across the cabin, and
thrusting his hands far down into his pockets, —“hear him, all of ye.

‘Think of that! When every moment we thought the ship would sink! Death
‘and the Judgment then? What? With ail tree masts making such an
everlasting thundering against the side; and every sea breaking over
us, fore and aft. Think of Death and the Judgment then? Nof no time to
think about Death then. Life was what Capiain Ahab and twas thinking
of, and how to save all hands—how to rig jury-masts—how to get into the
nearest port; that was what Iwas thinking of”

Bildad said na more, but buttoning up his caal, statked on deck, where
we followed him. There he stood, very quietly overtoaking some
saiimakers who were mending a top-sail in the waist. Now and then he
stooped to pick up a patch, or save an end of tared twine, which
otherwise might have been wasted

CHAPTER 49. The Prophet,
“Shipmates, have ye shipped in that ship?”

‘Queequeg and f had just eft the Pequod, and were sauntering away from
the water, for the moment each occupied with his own thoughts, when the
above words were pul fo us by a stranger, who, pausing before us,
levelled his massive forefinger at the vessel in question. He was but
shabbity apparetied in faded jacket and patched trowsers, a sag of
black handkerchief investing his neck. A confluent sorall-pox had in afl
directions flowed over his face, and eft itlike the complicated

Hibbed bed of a torrent, when the rushing waters have been dried up.

“Have ye shipped in her?” he repeated

“You mean the ship Pequod, t suppose,” sald I trying fo gain a file
‘more time for an uninterrupted fook at him.

“Aye, the Pequod—that ship there,” he said, drawing back his whofe arm,
and then rapidly shoving it straight out from him. with the Bxed

bayonet ofhis pointed finger darted full at the abject.

“Yes, said |, “we have just signed the articles”

“Anything down there about your souls?”

“About what?”

“Oh, perhaps you hav'n't got any,” he said quickly. “No matter though,
Henow many chaps that havn't got any,—good iuck fa “em, and they are

ail the better offforit.A soul's a sort ofa fifth wheel to.
wagon”
