Service. The Foundation’s EIN of federal tax identification number is
64.6221541. ts 50%{c}3) etter is posted at
ntipzippiaforgfundraising. Conbibutions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws,

‘The Foundation’s principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 997'2,,but its volunteers and employees are scattered
‘throughout numerous locations. tis business office is located at 809,
North $500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 846, (B05) 596-1887, email
business@@pplaf.org. Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official page
athtpy/pgiatorg

For additional contact information: Dr. Gregory 8. Newby Chief
Executive and Director gbnewby@ogiatorg

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
‘spread public sunport and danations fo carry ut its mission of
inoreasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
‘Realy distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many smaii donations
($1 to $5,000} are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt

status with the IRS.

‘The Foundation is committed to comptying with the laws regulating
chafities and charitable donations in ail 50 states ofthe United

Sates. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not soticit donations in iocations

where we have not received written confirmation of comptiance, To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
slate visit hipsipgiatorg

White we cannot and do not sofcit contributions fram states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsoficited donations from donors in such staies who
‘approach us with offers to donate,

Intemational donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any
statements conceming tax treatment of donations received from outside
the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small siaft

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses, Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
