Burst in upon him

Hearing the tremendous rush of the sea-crashing boat, the whale wheeled
round to present his blank forehead at bay, but in that evolution,

caiching sight of the nearing black hull of the ship; seemingly seeing

init the source ofall his persecutions, bethinking it_it may be—a

targer and nabier foe; ofa sudden, he bore down upon its advancing
prow, smiling his jaws amid Rery showers of foam,

Ahab staggered: his hand smote his forehead, “t grow blind: hands!
stretch out before me that may yet grope my way. Ist night?”

“The whale! The ship! cried the cringing oarsmen.

“Oars! oars! Siope downwards to thy depths, O sea, that ere it be for
ever too late, Ahab may slide this iast, last time upon his markt |
see: the ship! the ship! Dash on, my ment Will ye not save my ship?”

But as the oarsmen violently forced their boat through the
sledge-hammering seas, the before whale-smitien bow-ends of two planks.
‘ussi through, and in an instant aimost, the temporary disabled boat

tay nearly level with the waves: its halfwading, splashing crew,

‘eying hard to stop the gap and bate out the pouring water.

Meantime, for that one behotding instant, Tashtego's masthead hammer
Temained suspended in his hand, and the red flag, halt-wrapping him as
with a plaid, then streamed iiseff straight out from him, as his own
forward-Rowing heart; while Starhuck and Stubb, standing upon the
bowsprit beneath, caught sight of the down-coming monster just as soon
ashe.

“The whale, the whale! Up helm, up helm! Oh, ail ye sweet powers of
air, now hug me close! Let nat Starbuck die, if die he must, in a

‘woman's fainting fit. Up heim, | say—ye fools, the Jaw the jaw! ts

{his the ond of al my bursting prayers? all my lifelong fidetes?

‘Oh, Ahab, Ahab, to, thy work. Sleady! helmsman, steady. Nay. nay! Up
‘helm again! He turns to meet us! Oh, his unappeasable brow drives on
towards one, whose duty tells him he eannot depart. My Gad, stand by me

"Stand not by me, but stand under me, whoever you are that will now
help Stubb; for Stubb, too, sticks here. 'grin at thee, thou grinning

whale! Who ever helped Stubb, or kept Stubb awake, but Stubb's own
‘unwinking eye? And now poor Stub goss to bed upon a mattrass that is
all too soft; would it were stuffed with brushwood? Farin at thee,

thou grinning whalet Look ye, sun, moon, and stars! call ye assassins
‘fas good fellow as ever spouted up his ghost. For all that, bwould

yet ng glasses with ye, would ye but hand the cup! Oh, ohfoh, oft

thou grinning whate, but there'll be plenty of gulping soon! Why fy ye
not, O Ahab! For me, off shoes and jacket to it, Tet Stubb die in his
