seamen, spumed his suit; and not aif the King his father's influence
‘could prevail, But Queequeg vowed a vow. Alone in his canoe, he paddied
offto a distant strait, whieh he knew the ship must pass through when

she quitted the island. On one side was a coral reef. on the other a

tow tongue oftand, covered with mangrove thickets that grew out into

the water. Hiding his canoe, stil afloat, among these thickets, with

iis prow seaward, he sat down in the sien, paddie fow in hand: and

when the ship was gliding by. lke a flash he darted out, gained her

side; with one backward dash af his foot capsized and sank his canoe:
‘cfimbed up the chains; and throwing himseif at full fength upon the

deck, grappied a ring-bolt there, and swore not to fet it go, though

hacked in pieces.

In vain the captain threatened to throw him overboard; suspended
cutlass over his naked wrists; Queequeg was the son of a King, and
‘Queequeg budged not. Struck by his desperate dauntiessness, and his
wild desire to vist Christendom, the capiain at fast relented, and

told him he might make himself at home. But this fine young savage—this
sea Prince of Wales, never saw the Capiain’s cabin. They puthim down
‘among the sailors, and made a whaleman of him. But like Czas Peter
‘content to tal in the shipyards of foreign cities, Queequeg disdained

‘no seeming ignominy, iTthereby he might happily gain the power of
enlightening his untutored countrymen. For at bottom—so he told me—he
was actuated by a profound desire fo team among the Christians, the
aris whereby to make his people stil happier than they were; and more
than that, still better than they were. But, alas! the practioes of

whalemen soon convinced him that even Christians could be both
miserable and wicked; infinitely more so, than ait his father's

heathens. Arrived at last in old Sag Harbor, and seeing what the

sailors did there; and then going on to Nantucket, and seeing how they
spent their wages in _thal_plaoe also, poor Queequeg gave it up for

lost. Thought he, i's a wicked word in all meridians; Mi die 3

pagan,

And thus an old idolator at heart, he yet lived among these Christians,
wore their clothes, and tied to talk their gibberish. Henes the queer
ways about him, though now some time from home,

y hints, |asked him whether he did not propose gaing back, and having
a coronation: since he might now consider his father dead and gone, he
being very old and feeble at the fast accounts. He answered no, not

yel; and added that he was fearful Christianity, or rather Christians,

‘had unfitied him for ascending the pure and undefiled throne of thirty
pagan Kings before hin. But by and by, he said, he would return —as
‘8000 as he felt himseif baptized again. For the nonce, however, he
propesed ta sail about, and sow his wild oats in all four ooeans. They
had made a harpooneer of him, and thal barbed iron was in tieu ofa
soeptre now.

| asked him what might be his immediate purpose, touching his future
