intensest concentrated whisper to his men; while the sharp fixed glance
from his eyes darted straight ahead of the bow, almost seemed as two
visible needies in two unerting binnacie compasses. He did not say much
to his crow, though, nor did his crew say anything to him, Only the

silence af the boat was at intervals startlingly pierced by one of his
peculiar whispers, now harsh with command, now sof with entreaty.

How different the oud litle King-Post. “Sing out and say something,
‘my Rearties. Roar and pull, my thunderbotis! Beach me, beach me on
their black backs, boys, only do that for me, and Fil sign over io you
‘my Martha's Vineyard plantation, boys; including wife and children,
boys. Lay me on—lay me on! O Lord, Lord? bust Fshail go stark, staring
‘mad! See! see that white water!” And so shouting, he puted his hat
‘fom his head, and stamped up and down on it, then picking itu,
flirted itfar off upon the sea; and finally fell to rearing and,

plunging in the boat's stern like a crazed colt fromm the prairie.

“Look at that chap now,” philosophically drawled Stubb, who, with his
untighted short pipe, mechanically retained between his teeth, at a
short distance, followed after—"He's got fis, that Flask has. Fits?

yes, give hier fiis—thal's the very word—piteh fits into 'em. Merrily,
‘meray, hearis-alive. Pudding for supper, you know;—merry's the word,
Pull, babes—pull, suckiings—puil, all But what the devil are you
‘hurrying about? Softy, sofly, and steadily, my men. Only pull, and
keep pulling; nothing more. Crack all your backbones, and ite your
{cnives in two—that's ail. Take it easy—why don't ye take iteasy, F

say, and burst afl your livers and tungs!”

 

 

But what itwas that inscrutable Ahab said to that tiger-yetlow crew of
‘his_these were words best omitted here: for you five under the blessed
light ofthe evangelical tand. Only the infidel sharks in the audacious
‘seas may give ear to such words, when, with tomado brow, and eyes of
red murder, and foam-glued tips, Ahab leaped after his prey.

Meanwhite, ail the boats tore on. The repeated specific atusions of
Flask to “that whale,” as he called the ficitious monster which he
dectared to be incessantly tantalizing his boat's bow with its
tail_these allusions of his were at times so vivid and ife-tke, that
they would cause some one of two of his men to snatch a fearful look
over the shoulder. But this was against ail ule; for the oarsmen must
put out their eyes, and ram a skewer through their necks; usage
pronouncing that they must have no organs but ears, and no limbs but
arms, in these entical moments,

was a sight full of quick wonder and awe! The vast swells ofthe
‘omnipotent sea: the surging, hollow roar they made, as they rolled
along ihe eight gunwates, ike gigantic bowls in a boundiess:
‘owling-green; the Brief suspended agony ofthe boat, as it would tip
for an instant on the knife-tike edge of the sharper waves, that atmost
seemed threatening to cuttin two: the sudden profound dip into the
