‘knife and fork, hetween which the slice of bee was locked, Ahab
thereby motioned Starbuck's plate towards him, the male received his
‘meat as though receiving aims; and cut it tended, and a ite

started if, perchance, the knife grazed against the plats; and chewed
itnoiselessly; and swallowed it, not without circumspection, For, fike

the Coronation banquet at Frankfort, where the German Emperor
profoundly dines with the seven Imperial Electors, so these cabin meals
were somehow solemn meais, eaten in awful silence: and yet at table old
Ahab forbade not conversation; only he himself was dumb. What a relief
itwas to choking Stubb, when a ral made a sudden racket in the hold
below. And poor title Flask, he was the youngest son, and iltle boy
ofthis weary family party. His were the shinbones of the saline beet,

this would have been the drumsticks. For Flask fo have presumed to help
‘himself, this must have seemed to him tantamount to larceny in the

first degree. Had he helped himseif at that table, doubtiess, never

‘more would he have been able to hold his head up in this honest world
nevertheless, stange to say, Ahab never forbade him. And had Flask
‘etped himself, the chances were Ahab had never so much as noticed it
Least ofall, did Flask presume to help himself to hutter, Whether he
thought the owners of the ship denied itto Rim, on account ofits

clotting his clear, sunny complexion, or whether he deemed that, an so
tong a voyage in such marketiess waters, butter was at a premium, and
therefore was not for him, a subattem: however itwas, Flask, alas!

was a butterless mant

Another thing. Flask was the fast person down at the dinner, and Flask
is the first man up. Consider! For hereby Flask’s dinner was badly
jammed in point of ime. Starbuck and Stubb both had the siatt of him:
‘and yet they also have the privilege of founging in the rear. # Stubb
‘even, who is but a peg higher than Flask, happens to have but a small
appatita, and soon shows symptoms of concluding his repast, then Flask
‘must bestir himself, he will nat get more than three mouthfuls that

‘day, for itis against holy usage for Stubb to precede Flask to the

deck, Therefore it was that Flask once admitted in private, that ever
since he had arisen to the dignity of an officer, from that moment he
‘ad never known what itwas to be otherwise than hungry, more oF less,
For what he ate did not so much zelieve his hunger, as keep itimmortal
{in him. Peaoe and satisfaction, thought Flask, have for ever departed
from my stomach. 1am an officer; but, how Fwish tcould fish 3 bit of
old-fashioned beef in the forecast, as Hused to when Iwas before

the mast. There's the fuils of promotion iow, there's the vanity of

alory: there's the insanity of ifet Besides, iTitwere sa that any.

mete sailor of the Pequod had a grudge against Flask In Flask’s

oficial capacity, all that saifor had to da, in order to oblain ample
vengeance, was to go af at dinnertime, and get a peep al Flask
through the cabin skylight, siting sily and dumfoundesed before

‘awful Ahab,

Now, Ahab and his three mates formed what may he eafled the first table
fn the Pequod's cabin. After their departure, taking place in inverted
