Lying-in Hospital

{partly surrmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers may be
likewise imputed to the existence on the cvast of Greenland, in former
times, of @ Dutch village called Schmeranburgh or Smeerenberg, which
{atlas name is the one used by the leamed Fogo Von Stack, in his great
work on Smelis, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports

{smeer, fat; berg, to put up) this vilage was founded in order to

ford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whate feet to be tried

out, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. twas a
collection of furnaces, fat-ketties, and ail sheds: and when the works
‘were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant eavor. But

ail this is quite diferent with a South Sea Sperm Whaler, which in 2
‘voyage of four years perhaps, after completely fing her hold with

‘, does not, perhaps, consume fly days in the business of boiling

ut, and in the state that itis casked, the oll is nearly seentiess,

The truth i, that living oF dead, ifbut decently treated, whales as a
species are by no means creatures oft odor, nor can whalemen be
recognised, as the people of the middle ages affected to detect a Jew

in the company, by the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly be
otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such high
‘neatth; taking abundance of exercise; always out of daors, though, it

is tue, seldom in the open al. tay, that the motion ofa Sperm

Whale’s flukes above water dispanges a perfume, as when a musk-scented
lady tusties her dress in 2 warm parlor. What then shail Hiken the

Sperm Whale fo for fragrance, considering his magnitude? Must itnot be
to that femous elephant, with jewelled tusks, and redolent with myrh,
which was Jed out of an Indian town to do honar to Alexander the Great?

CHAPTER 93. The Castaway,

twas but some few days after encountering the Frenchman, that a most
significant event befet! the most insignificant of the Bequod's crew.

an event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the sometimes.
‘madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever accompanying
prophecy of whatever shattered sequel right prove her own.

Now. in the whale ship, itis not every one that goes in the boats,
Some few hands ate reserved called ship-keepers, whose provinos itis
fo work the vessel while the boals are pursuing the whale. As a general
thing, these ship-keepers are as hardy fellows as the men comprising
the boats’ crews. But if there happen to be an unduly slender, clumsy,
‘or imorous wight in the ship. that wight is certain to be made a
ship-keeper. ttwas so in the Bequod with the ile negro Pippin by
nick-name, Pip by abbreviation, Paor Pipl ye have heard of him before;
ye must remember his tambourine on that dramatic midnight, 80.
gioomy-jlty

In outer aspect, Pip and Dough-Boy made a match, tike a black pony and
