CHAPTER 121. Midnight The Forecastie Bulwarks,

_Stubb and Flask mounted on them, and passing additional iashings over
the anchors there hanging._

*No, Stubh; you may pound that knot there as much as you please, but
‘you will never pound into me what you were just now saying. And how
tong ago is it since you said ihe very contrary? Didn't you once say
that whatever ship Ahab sails in that ship should pay something extra
‘on its insurance policy, just as though it were toaded with powder
barrels aff and boxes of lucifers forward? Stop, now, didn't you say

“Well, suppose f did? What then? I've part changed my flesh since that
time, why not my mind? Besides, supposing we _are_toaded with powder
‘barrels afl and tucifers forward; how the devil could the ucifers get

afire in this drenching spray here? Why, my tte man, you have pretty
‘ed hair, but you couldn't get afire now. Shake yourself. you're

Aquarius, or the water-bearer, Flask; might fil pitchars at your coat

‘eotlar. Don't you see, then, that for these extra risks the Marine

Insurance companies have extra guarantees? Here are hydrants, Flask.
‘But hark, again, and Il answer ye the other thing. Fist take your

eg offfrom the crown of the anchor here, though, go tean pass the

rope, now listen. What's the mighty difference between holding 2 mast’s
Jightning-tod in the storm. and standing olose by a mast that hasa’t

got any ightning-tod at all ia a storm? Don'tyou see, you

timber-head, that no harm can come to the holder of the rod, untess the
‘mastis frst struck? What are you taiking about, then? Not one ship in

a hundred carries rods, and Ahab,—aye, man, and aif of us,—were in n0
more danger then, in my poor opinion, than all the crews in ten

thousand ships now sailing the seas, Why, you King-Post, you, I suppose
you would have every man in the world go about with a stati
Jightning-rod running up the comer of his hat, lke a rita

officer's skewered feather, and trailing behind like his sash. Why
don'tye be sensible, Flask? is easy to be sensible; why dan'tye,

then? any man with haifan eye can be sensible.”

“Idon't know that, Stubb. You sometimes find itrather hard.”

~Yes, when a fetlow’s sosked through, i's hard to be sensible, that's
‘fact And am about drenched with this epray. Never mind: catch the

tum there, and pass it. Seems fo me we are lashing down these anchors
now as ifthey were never going to be used again. Tying these two
anchors here, Flask, seems like tying a man’s hands behind him. And
what big generous hands they are, to be sure. These are your iron

fists, hey? What a hold they have, too! Fwonder, Flask, whether the

world is anchored anywhere; ifshe is, she swings with an uncommon tong
able, though. There, hammer that knot down, and we've done. So; next
to touching tand, fighting on deck is the most satisfactory. [say

just wring put my jacket skirts, wil ye? Thank ye. They laugh at
