fukes close by.

Riotous and disordered as the universal commotion now was, it soon
Tesolved iteelfinto what seemed a systematic movement; for having
clumped together at fast in one dense body, they then renewed their
onward fight with augmented fleetness. Further pursuit was useless:

ut the boats stil Jingered in theis wake fo pick up what drugged

whales might be dropped astern, and likewise to secure one which Flask
had killed and waifed. The waifis a pennoned pole, two or tree of
‘which are carried by every boat, and which, when additional game is at
‘hand, are inserted upright info the floating Body of a dead whale, bath

to mark its place an the sea, and also as token of prior possession,
should the boats of any other ship draw near.

‘The resuit ofthis towering was somewhat istrative of that sagacious
saying in the Fishery.—the more whales the less fish. Of all the

rugged whales only one was captured, The rest contrived to escape for
the time, but onty to be taken, as will hereafter be scen, by some

other craft than the Pequod,

(CHAPTER 88. Schools and Schooimasters.

‘The previous chapter gave account of an immense body of herd of Sperm,
Whales, and there was also then given the probable cause Inducing those
vast aggregations,

Now, though such great bodies are al times encountered, yet, as must
have been seen, even a the present day, smail detached bands ate
‘occasionally observed, embracing from twenty to fly individuats each.
Such bands are known as schools. They generally are of two sorts; hose
composed airmost entisely of females, and those mustering none but young
vigorous mates, or bulls, as they are fariarly designated.

In cavalier atiendancs upon the school of femates, you invariably see a
‘male of ful grown magnitude, but not old; who, upon any alarm, evinces
his galtantry by falling in the rear and covering the fight of his

fadies. In ruth, this gentleman is a luxurious Ottoman, swimming about
over the watery world, surroundingty accompanied by all the solaces and
endearments of the harem, The contrast between this Ottoman and his,
concubines is striking; because, while he is always ofthe largest
seviathanic proportions, the ladias, even at full growth, are not more

than one-third ofthe bulk of an average-sized male, They are
comparatively delicate, indeed, | dare say, not ta exceed halfa dozen
yards round the waist. Nevertheless, itcannot te denied, thal upan the
whole they are hereditarily ented to _en bon point_

ttis very curious to wateh this harem and its ford in thei indolent
ramblings. Like fashionables, they are for ever on the move in
leisurely search of variety. You meet them on the Line in time for the
