‘one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of|
snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed capable
ofbeing done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and siood eyeing
the boom as ifitwere the lower jaw of an exasperated whate. In the

‘ids of his consternation, Queequeg dropped defy to his knees, and
‘erawling under the path ofthe boom, whipped hold of a rope, secured

one end to the bulwarks, and then Blaging the offer tike a lasso,

‘eauight it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the next

jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and all was safe. The schooner was
‘un into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the stern

boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with a fong
living arc of a Jeap. For three minutes or more he was seen swimming

{ike a dog, throwing his fang arms straight out before him, and by

tums teveating his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam.

Jooked al the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to be saved.

‘The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicutarly rom the
water, Queequeg, now took an insiant's glance around him, and seeming
to see just how matters were, dived down and disappeared. A few minutes
more, and he rose again, one arm stil staking out, and with the other
dragging a Hfeless form, The bost soon picked them up. The poor
‘pumpkin was restored. All hands voted Queequeg a noble trump: the
captain begged his pardon. From that hour | clove to Queequeg like a
‘bamacle; yea, til poor Queequeg took his last tong dive,

Was there ever such unconssiousness? He did not seem to think that he
at all deserved a medal from the Humane and Magnanimous Societies. He
‘only asked for water—fresh waler—something to wipe the brine ofthat
done, he puton dry clothes, lighted his pipe, and feaning against the
bulwarks, and mildly eyeing those around him, seemed to be saying to
himseif_—'s a mutual, joint-stock world, in ail meridians. We

cannibals must heip these Christians”

  

CHAPTER 14. Nantucket.

Nothing more happened on the passage worthy the mentioning: so, after a
fine tun, we safely amtived in Nantucket.

Nantucket! Take out your map and look at it See what a real comer of
the world it occupies; how it stands there, away off shore, more fonely
than the Eddystone jighthouse. Look at it_a mere hillock, and elbow of
sand; all beach, without s background. There is mose sand there than
you would use in twenty years as a substitute for biotting paper. Some
‘gamesome wights wil tell you that they have to plant weeds there, they
don't grow naturally; that they import Canada thistles; that they have

to send beyond seas for a spile to stop a feak in an all cask, that

pieces of wood in Nantucket are cartied about tke bits ofthe tue

‘croas in Rome; that people there plant toadstools before their houses,

to get under the shade in summer ime; that one blade of grass makes an
‘oasis, three blades in a day's walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand
