viats—devoting the ship and all hands to unconditional perdiion, in
‘case this intention was carried out. So strongly did he work upon his
disciples among the orew, that at last in a body they went to the

‘captain and told him if Gabriel was sent fram the ship, not 2 man of
them would remain, He was therefore forced to relinquish his plan. Nor
would they permit Gabriel to be any way maltreated, say or do what he
would; so that itcame to pass that Gabdel had the complete freedom of
the ship. The consequence ofall this was, that the archangel cared

{ite or nothing for the captain and mates; and since the epidemic had
broken out, he castied a higher hand than ever, declaring that the
plague, as he calfed it, was at his sole command, nor should it be
slayed but according to his good pleasure. The ssilars, mostly poor
devils, cringed, and some of them lawned before him: in obedience to
his instructions, sometimes rendering him personat homage, as to 8 god.
Such things may seem incredible; but, however wondrous, they are true.
Noris the history of fanatics half so striking in respect to the
measuretess self-deception of the fanatic himself, as his measureless:
power of deosiving and bedeviling so many others. But tis time to
retum to the Pequod

“Hear not thy epidemic, man, said Ahab from the bulwarks, to Cantain
Mayhew, whe stood in the boat's stem; “come on board.”

But now Gabriel started to his feet

“Thinks, think of the fevers, yellow and dilious! Beware of the homie
piaguer

“Gabriel! Gabriel cried Captain Mayhew: “thou must either But that
instant 2 headiong wave shat the boat far ahead, and its seethings
drowned all speech,

“Hast thou seen the White Whale?” demanded Ahab, when the boat drifted
back.

“Think, think of thy whale-boat, stoven and sunk! Beware of the
horrible tail"

“Hell thee again, Gabriel, that” But again the boat tore ahead as if
dragged by fiends. Nothing was said for some moments, while &
succession of otous waves rolled by, which by one of those occasional
capfices of the seas were tumbling, not heaving it Meantime, the

hoisted sperm whale's head jogged about very violently, and Gabriel was
seen eyeing itwith rather mote apprehiensiveness than his archangel
nature seemed to warrant,

When this intedude was over, Captain Mayhew began a dark story
concerning Moby Dick, not, however, witout frequent interruptions from
‘Gabriel, whenever his name was mentioned, and the crazy sea that seemed
Jeagued with him
