heads (great curios, you know), and he's sold all on ‘em butone, and
that one he's trying fo set to-night, cause to-morrow's Sunday, and it
would not do to he sellin’ human heads about the streets when folks is
‘goin’ to churches. He wanted to, last Sunday. but stopped him just as,
‘he was goin’ out of the door with four heads strung on a string, for

all the airth like a string afinions.”

‘This account cleared up the otherwise unaccountable mystery, and showed
that the landiond, after all, had had no idea of footing me—but at the

same time what could t think of a harpooneer who siayed out of a

Saturday night clean into the holy Sabbath, engaged in such a cannibal
business as selling the heads of dead idotators?

“Depend upon it tandiord, that harpooneer is a dangerous man”

“He pays seg'iar.” was the rejoinder. “But come, i's getting dreadtul
fale, you had better be turning flukes—it's a nice bed; Sal and me
sleptin that ere bed the night we were spliced. There's plenty of room

{or two to kick about in that bed: i's an almighty big hed that. Why,

afore we give itup, Sal used to put our Sarr and title Johnny in the

{pot ofit But got a dreaming and sprawling about one night, and
somehow, Sam got pitched on the floor, and came near breaking his arm.
Arter that, Sat said it wouldn't do. Came along here, Fligive ye @

alin in a ify and so saying he lighted a candle and held it towards

‘me, offering to lead the way. But stood irresolute; when fooking at a
‘clock in the comer, he exclaimed “I vunr its Sunday—you won't see that
harpooneer to-night he's come to snchar somewhere—come along then:
_do_ come; _won't_ye came?”

eonsidered the matter a moment, and then up stairs we went, and! was
ushered into a smail room, cold a8 a clam, and furnished, sure enough,
with 2 prodigious bed, almost big enough indeed for any four
farpooneers to sleep abreast

“There,” sald the tandiosd, placing the candle on a crazy old sea chest
that did double duty as a wash-stand and centre table; “there, make
yourself comfortable now, and good night o ye.” Hurned round from
eyeing the bed, but he had disappeared

Folding back the countempane, | stooped over the bed. Though none of
the most elegant, it yet stood the scrutiny tolerably wel. then

glanced round the room, and besides the bedstead and centre table,
‘could see no other furniture belonging to the place, but a rude shelf

the four wails, and a papered fireboard representing a man striking @
whale. Of things not properly betonging fo the room, there was &
‘fammiock tashed up, and thrown upon the floor in one comer; also a
farge seaman's bag, containing the harpoaneer's wardrobe, no doubtin
tiew ofa land trunk, Likewise, there was a parcel of outlandish bone

fish hooks on the shelf over the fire-place, and a tall harpoon

standing at the head of the bed
