Now, as the business of standing mast-heads, ashore or aflst, is a
very ancient and interesting one, Jet us in some measure expatiate
here. Hake it that the earliest standers of mastheads were the old
Egyptians; because. in aif my researches, Hfind none prior to them.

For though their progenitors, the builders of Babel, must doubtless, by
their tower, have intended te rear the fofiest masthead in all Asia,

oF Affica either: yet (ere the final truck was put to it} as that great

sione mast of theits may be said to have gone by the board, in the
dread gate of God's wrath; therefore, we cannot give these Babel
builders priosty over the Egyptians. And thal the Egyptians were a
nation of mast-head standers, is an assertion based upon the general
belief among archaeologists, that he first pyramids were founded for
astronomical purposes: a theory singularly supported by the peculiar
Slair-ike formation of all four sides of those edifices; whereby, with
prodigious tong upliftings oftheir legs, those old astronomers were
‘wont fo mount to the apex, and sing out for new stars, even as the
fook-ouls of a modem ship sing out for a sail, or a whale just bearing

in sight. in Saint Styltes, the famous Christian hermit of old times,

‘who built him tofty stone pillarin the desert and spent the whole

{atter portion of his life on its summit, hoisting his food from the

‘ground with a tackle; in him we have a remarkable instance of a
‘dauntless stander-ot mast-heads, whe was not to be driven from his
place by fogs or frosts, rain, hal, or sleet, but valiantly facing
everything out to the fast, fterally died at his post. Of modem
standers-of mast-heads we have buta Meless set; mere stone, iron,
and bronze men; who, though well capable of facing out a st gale,

_are stil entirely incompetent to the business of singing out upon
discovering any strange sight. There is Napoleon; who, upan the top of
the column of Vendome, stands with arms folded, some one hundred and
‘ity et in the air; careless, now, who rules the decks below,

whether Louis Philippe, Louis Blane, or Louis the Devil. Great
Washington, too, stands high aloft on his towering main-mast in
Battimore, and like one of Hercules’ pillars, his column marks that
point of human grandeur beyond which few mortals will go. Admiral
Nelson, afso, on a capstan of gur-metal, stands his mast-head in
‘Trafalgar Square: and ever when most obsoured by that London smoke,
token is yet given that a hidden hero is there: for where there is

smoke, must be fire. But neither great Washington, nor Napoleon, nor
Netson, will answer a single hail rom below, however madly invoked to
beffiend by their counsels the distracted decks upon which they gaze.
however it may be surmised, that their spirits penetrate through the
thick haze of the future, and descry what shoals and what rocks must be
shunned

may seem unwarrantabie to couple in any respect the masthead
standers of the fand with those ofthe sea, but that in truth itis not

80, is plainly evinced by an item for which Obed Macy. the sate
historian of Nantucket, stands accountable. The worthy Obed tells us,
that in the early times of the whale fishery, ere ships were regularly
