“Do tet, now,” cried Bildad, “s this Philistine a regular member of
Deacon Deisleronomy's meeting? fnever saw him going there, and | pass
itevery Lord's day.”

*\ don't know anything about Deacon Deuteronomy or his meeting,’ said
allt know is, hat Queequeg here is a bom member of the First
‘Congregational Church, He is a deacon himself, Queequeg is.”

“Young man,” said Bildad sternly, “thou art skylarking with me—explain
thyself, hou young Hitite. What church dost thee mean? answer me.”

Finding mysetf thus hard pushed, t replied. “Y mean, si, the same
ancient Catholic Church to which you and I, and Captain Peteg there,
‘and Queequeg here, and aif ofus, and every mother's son and soul afus
belong; the great and everlasting First Congregation of this whole
worshipping world; we all beiong to that; only some ofus cherish some
queer erotchets no ways touching the grand belief; in_that_we aif

join hands.~

“Splice, thou mean'st _splioe_ hands," cried Peleg, drawing nearer.
“Young man, you'd better ship for a missionary, instead of a fore-mast
‘hand; [never heard a better sermon, Deacon Deisteronomy—why Father
‘Mappie himesif couldn't beat it, and he’s reckoned something. Come
aboard, come aboard; never mind about the papers. F say. tell Quohog
there—what's that you call him? tell Quohog to step along. By the great
anchor, what a harpoon he's got there! iooks tke good stu that, and

he handles it about right. say, Quohog, or whatever your name is, did
‘you ever stand in the head ofa whale-boat? did you ever strike a

fish

Without saying a word, Queequeg, in his wild sort of way, jumped upon,
the bulwarks, fram thence into the bows of one of the whale-boats
‘hanging to the side: and then bracing his tefl knee, and polsing his
‘harpoon, cried out in some such way as this. —

“Cap’ain, you see him smait drop tar on water dere? You see him? wel
spose him one whale eye, weil, den!” and taking sharp aim at it, he
darted the iron right over ald Bildad's broad brim, clean across the
ship's decks, and struck the glistening tar spot out of sight.

“Now.” said Queequeg, quietly hauting in the line, “spos-ee him whale-e
eye: why, dad whale dead”

“Quick, Bildad,” sald Peteg, his partner, who, aghast at the close
icity ofthe flying harpoon, had retreated towards the cabin
‘gangway. “Quick, Feay, you Bildad, and get the ship's papers. We must
have Hedgehog there, mean Quohog, in one of our boats. Look ye,
‘Quohog, we'll give ye the ninetieth fay, and that's more than ever was,
given a harpoonser yet out of Nantucket”
