order to thelr arival, the canvas cloth was cleared, or rather was
resiored to some hurried order by the palid steward. And then the
three harpooneers were bidden to the feast, they baing its residuary
legates. They made a sort of temporary servants’ hail ofthe high and
mighty cabin

In strange contrast to the hardly tolerable constraint and nameless
invisible domineetings of the captain's table, was the entire care-tree
ficense and ease, the atmost frantic democracy of those inferior

fellows the harpooneers. While their masters, the mates, seemed afraid
ofthe sound of the hinges of their own jaws, the harpooneers chewed
their food with such a relish that there was a report toit. They dined

tike lords; they filed their hellies ike indian ships all day toading

with spices. Such portentous appetiies had Queequeg and Tashtego, that
to fil out the vacancies made by the previous repast, offen the pate
Dough-Boy was fain to bring on a great baron of salt junk, seemingly
quarried out of the solid ox. And ithe were not fively aboutit ithe

did not go with a nimble hop-skip-and.jump, then Tashtego frad an
ungentiemanty way of aocelerating hint by darting a fork at his back,
harpoon-wise. And onos Daggoo, seized with a sudden humor, assisted
Dough-Boy's memory by snatching him up bodily, and thrusting his head
into a great empty wooden trencher, while Tashtego, knife in hand,
‘began faying out the circle preliminary to scatping him. He was

naturally a very nervous, shuddering sort of ite fellow, this

bread faced steward; the progeny of a bankrupt baker and a hospital
nurse. And what with the standing spectacie of the black teriiic Ahab,
and the periodical tumuttuous visitations ofthese three savages,
Dough-Boy's whole fife was one continual fip-quiver. Commonly, after
seeing the harpooneers furnished with all things they demanded, he
would escape from their clutches into his litte pantry adjoining, and
‘fearfully peep out at them through the blinds of ts door, til al! was

was a sight to see Queequeg seated over against Tashtego, opposing
his fled teeth to the Indian's: crosswise to them, Daggoo seated on

the floor, for a bench would have brought his hearse-plumed head to the
ow cartines; at every motion of his colossal fimbs, making the tow

cabin framework to shake, as when an African elephant goes passenger in
2 ship. But for al this, the great negro was wonderfully abstemious,

not to say dainty. it seemed hardly possible that by such comparatively
“small mouthfuls he could keep up the vitality difuised through so

broad, baranial, and superb a person. But, doubtless, this noble savage
{fed strong and drank deep of the abounding element of air, and through
his dilated nostrils snuffed in the sublime fife ofthe worlds. Not by

beef or by bread, are giants made or nourished. But Queequeg, he had a
‘mortal, barbaric smack of the tip in eating—an ugly sound enough—so
‘much so, that the trembling Dough-Boy almost iooked to see whether any
‘marks of teeth lurked in his own jean arms. And whan he would hear
Tashiego singing out for him to produce himself, that his bones might

be picked, the simple-witted steward aif but shattered the erockery
