perceive that my own individuality was now merged in a joint stock
‘company of two; that my free wit! had recaived a mortal wound; and that
another's mistake or misfortune might plunge innocent me into unmarited
disaster and death, Therefore, Isaw that here was a sort of

interregnum in Providence, for its even-handed equity never could have
190 gros an injustice. And yet stil further pondering—while I jerked

‘nim now and then from bebween the whale and ship, which would threaten
to jam him—stil further pondering, | say. | saw that this situation of

‘mine was the precise situation of every mortal that breathes; only, in
‘mostcases, he, one way or other, has this Siamese connexion with a
plurailly ofother mortals. if your banker breaks, you snap; iTyour
apothecary by mistake sends you poison in your pills, you die. True,

‘you may say that, by exceeding caullon, you may possibly escape these
‘and the multtudinous other evil chances of ife. But handle Queequeg's
monkey-sope heediutly as | would, sometimes ne jerked itso, that!

came very near sliding overboard. Nor could I possibly forget that, do
what hmoutd, lonly had the management of one end of it"

“The monkey-rope is found in all whalers; but it was only in the Pequod
that the monkey and his holder were ever ied together. This
improvement upon the original usage was introduced by no less a man
than Stubb, in order to afford the imperiiad harpoonear the strongest
possible guarantee for the faithfulness and vigilance of his
monkey-rope holder

Ihave hinted that F would offen jerk poor Queequeg from between the
whale and the ship—where he would occasionally fa, rom the incessant
rolling and swaying of both. But this was not the only jamming jeopardy

ne was exposed to. Unappaited by the massacre made upon them during the
night, the sharks now freshly and mare keenly allured by the before

pent blood which began to flow from the carcass—the rabid creatures:
‘swarmed round itfike bees in a heehive

‘And right in among those sharks was Queequeg: who often pushed them
‘aside with his foundering feet. A thing altogether incredible were it

‘not that attracted by such prey as a dead whale, the otherwise
miscettaneously carnivorous shark will seldom touch a rman.

Nevertheless, it may well be believed that since they have such @
ravenous finger in the pie, itis deemed but wise to took sharp to

them. Accordingly, besides the mankey-rope, with which now and thea
jerked the poor fellow from too close a vicinity to the maw of what
‘seemed a peculiarly ferocious shark—he was pravided with stil another
protection, Suspended over the side in one ofthe stages, Tashtego and
Daggoo continually Rourished over his head a couple of keen
whale-spades, wherewith they slauphtered as many sharks as they could
reach, This procedure of theirs, to he sure, was very disinterested and
benevolent of them. They meant Queequeg's best happiness, f admit; but
in their hasty zeal to beftiend him, and ftom the circumstance that

‘both he and the sharks were a times half hidden by the blood-muddied
