CHAPTER 49. The Hyena.

‘There are ceriain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed
fair we eal life when a man takes this whole universe for a vast

practical joke, though the wit thereof he but dimly disoerns, and more

than suspects that the joke is at nobody's expense but his own.

However, nothing dispitts, and nothing seems worth while disputing. He
bolts down ail events, all creeds, and heliefs, and persuasions, all

‘hard things visible and invisible, never mind how knobby, as an ostrich

of potent digestion gobbles down butlets and gun fins. And 3s for

small diffcutties and wonyings, prospects of sudden dieaster, peat

of fife and limb; all these, and death itself, seem to him only sly
‘good-natured hits, and jolly punches in the side bestowed by he unseen
and unaccountable old joker. That odd sort of wayward mood tam
speaking of, comes over a man only in some time of extreme tibulation,
itcomes in the very midst of his earnestness, so that what just before
might have seemed to him a thing most momentous, now seems but a part
ofthe general joke. There is nothing tike the perils of whaling to

breed this free and easy sort of genial, desperado philosophy: and with

it} now regarded this whole voyage of the Pequod, and the great White
Whale its object.

“Queeques.” said |, when they had dragged me, the last man, to the
deck, and Iwas stil shaking myseif in my jacket to fing ofthe

water; “Queequeg, my fine fiend, does this sost of thing often

happen?” Without much emotion, though soaked through just like me, he
‘gave me to understand that such things did often happen,

“Ms. Stubb,” said I, turning to that worthy, who, buttoned up in his
oil Jacket, was now calmly smoking his pipe in the rain; “Mr. Stubb, F
think have heard you say that of all whalemen you ever moet, our chief
‘mate, Mr. Starbuck, is by far the most careful and prudent. f suppose
then, that going plump on a fiying whale with your sail set in a foggy
squailis the height of a whaleman’s discretion?”

“Certain. Fve lowered for whales from a leaking ship in a gale of
‘Cape Hom.”

“Me, Flask,” said |, turning to title King-Post, who was standing
close by; you are experienced in these things, and [am not. Wil you
tell me whether itis an unalterable taw in this fishery, Mr. Flask,

{or an oarsman to break his own back puling himself back-foremast into
death's jaws?”

“Can't you twist that matter?" said Flask. “Yes, that’s the faw.
should like to see a boat's crew backing water up to a whale face
foremost. Ha, hal the whale would give them squint for squint, salad
that
