thats, regardiess of how the thing came into possession? Butofen
possession is the whole of the iaw. What are the sinews and souls of
Russian serfs and Republican slaves but Fast Fish, whereof possession
is the whole ofthe law? What to the rapacious landlord is the widow's

jst mite but a Fast-Fish? What is yonder undetected vitlain's marble
mansion with a door-plate for a waif, what is that but a Fast-Fish?

What's the ruinous discount which Mordecai, the broker, gets fram poor
Woebegene, the bankrupt, on a loan to keep Woebegone's family from,
starvation; what is that ruinous discount but a Fast-Fish? What is the
Archbishop of Savesou''s income of £100,000 seized from the scant bread
and cheese of hundreds of thousands of broken-hacked laborers (all sure
of heaven without any of Savesou!'s help} what is that globular

£400,000 but a Fast-Fish? What are the Duke of Dunder’s hereditary
towns and hamlets but Fast-Fish? What fo that redoubted harpooneer,
John Bull, is poor ireland, but a Fast-Fish? What to that apostolic

lancer, Brother Jonathan, is Texas but a FastFish? And coneerning alt
these, ig not Possession the whale of the faw?

Butif the dactine of Fast Fish be pretty generally applicabie, the
kindred doctrine of Loose-Fish is stil more widely so. Thatis
intemationally and universally applicable.

‘What was America in 1492 but a Loose-Fish, in which Columbus struck ihe
Spanish standard by way of waifing itfor his royal master and

mistress? What was Poland to the Czar? What Greece to the Turk? What
India to England? What at ast will Mexico be to the United States? Ail
Loose-Fish,

What are the Rights of Man and the Liberties of the World but
Loose-Fish? What all men’s minds and opinions but Loose-Fish? What is
the principte of religious betlefin them but a Loose-Fish? What to the
ostentatious smuggling verbalists are the thoughts of thinkers but
‘Loose-Fish? What is he great globe itself but a Loose-Fiah? And what
are you, reader, but a Loose-Fish and a FastFish, too?

CHAPTER 90. Heads or Tails.

“De halena vero suffct, si rex habeat caput, et regina caudam.
Bracton, 1.3.6.3.

Latin from the books ofthe Laws of England, which taken along with the
context, means, that of all whates captured by anybody an the coast of
that land, the King, as Honorary Grand Harpooneer, must have the head,
and the Queen be respectfully presented with the tail. A division

which, in the whale, is much fike halving an apple; there is no
intermediate remainder. Now as this taw, under a modified form, is to
this day in foree in England; and as it ofers in various respects &

strange anomaly touching the general !aw of Fast and Loose-Fish, itis
here treated of in a separate chapter, on the same courteous principle
