world, and go through young life's old routine again

‘Oh! the metempsychosis! Ob! Pythagoras, that in bright Greece, two
thousand years ago, did die, so good, so wise, so mild: I sailed with
thee atong the Peruvian coast last voyage—and, foolish as fam, taught
thee, a green simpie boy, how to splice 2 ropet

CHAPTER 99, The Doubloon,

Ere now it has been related how Ahab was wont to pace his quarter-deck,
taking regular turns at either Hart, the binnacle and mainmast, butin

the multipticity of other things requiring narration it has not been

added how that sometimes in these walks, when most plunged in his mood,
he was wont to pause in turn at each spot, and stand there strangely
eyeing the particular object before him. When he halted before the
binnacie, with his glance fastened on the pointed needie in the

‘compass. that glance shot like a javelin with the pointed intensity of

‘his purpose; and when resurning his walk he again paused before the
mainmast, then, as the same riveted glance fastened upon the riveted

‘gold coin there, he stil wore the same aspect of nailed firmness, only
dashed with a certain wild ionging, iTnot hopetuiness.

But one morning, turning to pass the doubloon, he seemed to be newly
attracted by the strange figures and inscriptions stamped on it, as

though now for the first time beginning to interpret for himself in

some monomaniac way whatever significance might lurk in them. And some
cefiain significance turks in all things, else all things are ite

worth, and the sound world itseif but an empty cipher, except to sell

by the cartioad, as they do hills about Boston, to fil up some morass

in the Mitky Way.

Now this doubtoon was of purest, virgin gold, raked somewhere out of
the heart of gorgeous hills, whence, east and west, aver goltien sands,
the head-waters of many a Pactolus flows. And though now nailed amidst
ail the rustiness of iron bolts and the verdigris of copper spikes,

yel, untouchable and immaculate to any foulness, it sil preserved its
‘Quito glow. Nor, though placed amongst a ruthless crew and every hour
passed by ruthless hands, and through the fiveiong nighis shrouded with
{hick daskness which might cover any pilfering approach, nevertheless
‘every suntise found the doubloon where the sunset eft itiast. Fort

was set apart and sanctified to one awe-striking end: and however
wanton in their saifor ways, one and all, the mariners revered it as

the white whaie's talisman. Sometimes they talked it over in the weary
watch dy night, wondering whose itwas to be at last, and whether he
would ever live fo spend it

Now those noble goiden coins of South America are as medals of the sun
and tropic token-pieoas. Hete patms, alpacas, and volcanoes; sun's
disks and stars; ectipties, homs-of plenty, and rich banners waving,
