instant of ime,

Nor, credutous as such minds must have been, was this coneait
altogether without some faint show of superstitious probability. For as
the secrets of the currents in the seas have never yet been divulged,
‘even to the most erudite research; so the hidden ways of the Sperm
Whale when beneath the surface remain, in great part, unaccountable to
‘nis pursuers, and from time to time have originated the most curious
and contradictory speculations regarding them, especially concerning
the mystic modes whereby, after sounding to a great depth, he
‘transports himself with such vast ewifiness to the most widely distant
pains

itis a thing well known to both American and English whale-ships, and
as well a thing placed upon authonitative record years ago by Scoresby,
that some whales have been captured far north in the Pacific, in whose
bodies have been found the barbs of harpoons darted in the Greeniand
seas, Nofis ito be gainsaid, that in some ofthese instances ithhas

been declared that the Interval oftime between the two assaults could
not have exceeded very many days. Hence, by inference, thas been
believed by some whalemen, that the Nor’ West Passage, so fang @
problem io man, was never a probiem to the whale. So that here, in the
‘eal living experience of ving men, the prodigies related in ald

times of the inland Siretio mountain in Portugal (near whose top there
was said to be a take in which the wrecks of ships floated up to the
surface}, and that stil more wonderful story ofthe Arethusa fountain

near Syracuse (whose waters were believed to have come from the Holy
Land by an underground passage}; these fabulous narrations are almost
fully equalled by the reales of the whalemen.

Forced Inte familiarity, then, with such prodigies as these: and
knowing that after repeated, intrepid assautts, the White Whale had
‘escaped alive; it cannot be much matier of surprise that some whalemen
should go stil further n their superstitions; dectaring Moby Dick not,

‘only ubiquitous, but immortal (for immortality is but ubiquity in

time}: that though groves of epears should be planted in his Ranks, he
would sti swim away unharmed: or ifindeed he should ever be made to
spout thick blood, such a sight would be but a ghastly deception; for
‘again in unensanguined billows hundreds of teagues away, his unsuilied
fetwould once more be seen.

But even stipped of these supernatural surmisings, there was enough in
the earthly make and Incontestable character of the monster to stike

the imagination with unwonted power. For, itwas not so much his
uncommon bul that so much distinguished him from other spesm whales,
but, as was elsewhere thrown outa peculiar snow-white wrinkled
forehead, and a high, pyramidical white hump. These were his prominent
features; the tokens whereby, even in the limitless, uncharted seas, he
‘revealed his identity, at a 1ong distance, to those who knew him.
