though in other mortal sympathies and symbolizings, this same hue is
‘made the embiem of many touching, noble things—the innovence of brides,
the benignity of age; though among the Red Men of America the giving of
the white belt of wampum was the deepest pledge of honor: though in

many climes, whiteness typifies the majesty of Justioe in the ermine of

the Judge, and contributes to the daity state of kings and queens drawn

by milk-white steeds; though even in the higher mysteries of he most
august religions it has been made the symbol of the divine spotiessness.
and power, by the Persian fire worshippers, the white forked fame

‘being held the holiest on the altar, and in the Greek mythologies,

Great Jove himseifbeing made incamaie in a snow-white bull, and

though to the noble troquois, the midwinter sacrifice ofthe sacred

White Dog was by far the holiest festival of their theotogy, that

spotless, faithful creature being held the purest envoy they could send

to the Great Spint with the annual tidings of their own fidetity: and

though directly from the Latin word for white, all Christian priests

derive the name of one part of thelr sacred vesture, the alb or tunic,

worn beneath the cassock; and though among the holy pomps of the Romish
faith, white is specially employed in the celebration of the Passion of

‘our Lord; though in the Vision af St. John, white robes are given to

the redeemed, and the four-and-twenty elders stand clothed in white
‘before the great white throne, and the Holy One that sitteth there

white fike wool; yet for all these accumulated associalions. with

whatever is sweet, and honorable, and sublime, there yet lurks an

‘slusive something in the innermost idea of this hue, which strikes more

of panic the soul than that redness which affighis in blood,

‘This elusive quality itis, which causes the thought of whiteness, when
divorced from more kindly associations, and coupted with any object
temnibie in itself, to heighten that tesror to the furthest bounds,

Witness the white bear ofthe poles, and the white shark ofthe

‘wopies; what but their sorooth, Raky whiteness makes them the
‘transcendent horrors they are? That ghastly whiteness itis which
imparts such an abhorrent mildness, even mare toathsome than tert,
to the dumb gloating of their aspect. So that not the flerce-fanged

tiger in his heraldic coat can so stagger courage as the white-shrouded
bear or shar

‘Mit reference to the Potar bear, it may possibly be urged by him who
would fain go sill deeper into this matter, that itis not the

whiteness, separately teparded, which heightens the intolerable
hideousness of that brute; for, analysed, that heightened hideousness,
itmight be sald, only slses from the circumstance, that the

imesponsible ferociousness of the creature stands invested in the
fleece of celestial Innocence and love: and hence, by bringing together
two such apposite emotions in our minds, the Polar bear frightens us
with so unnatural a contrast. Gut even assuming ail this to be tue;

vel, were itnot for the whiteness, you would not have that intensified
terror,
