H seemed that the Jeroboam had not iong feft home, when upon speaking
‘a whale-ship, her people were feliably apprised of the existence af

‘Moby Dick, and the havoc he had made. Greedily sucking in this
intetigence, Gabriel solemnly warned the captain against attacking the
White Whale, in case the monster should be seen, in his gibbering
insanity, pronouncing the White Whale to be no fess a being than the
‘Shaker God incamated: the Shakers receiving the Bible, But when, some
year ot two afterwards, Moby Dick was fairy sighted from the
‘mastheads, Macey, the chief mate, bumed with ardour fo encounter hima,
and the captain himself being not unwilling to fet him have the
opportunity, despite all the archangal's denunciations and

forewamings, Macey succeeded in persuading five men to man his boat.
‘With them he pushed off, and, after much weary puling, and many
perilous, unsuccessful onsets, he at ast succeeded in getting ane iron
fast. Meantime, Gabriel, ascending to the main-royal masthead, was
tossing one arm in frantic gestures, and hurling forth prophecies of
speedy doom to the sacrilegious assailants of his divinity. Now, white
Macey. the mate, was standing up in his boat's bow, and with all the
reckless energy of is tribe was venting his wild exclamations upon ihe
whale, and essaying to get fair chance for his poised lance, iota

‘broad white shadow rose from the sea, by its quick, fanning motion,
temporanily taking the breath out of the bodies of the oarsmen. Next
instant, the fuckless mate, go full offurious life, was smitien bodily

{nic the air, and making a fong arc in his desoent, fell into the sea

at the distance of about fly yards. Not a chip of the boat was

harmed, nor a hair of any sarsman’s head: but the mate for ever sank.

tis weil to parenthesize here, that of the fatal accidents in the
‘Sperm-Whaie Fishery, this kind is perhaps almost as frequent as any.
Sometimes, nothing is injured but the man who is thus annihilated,
fener the boat's bow is knocked off, or the thigh-board, in which the
headsman stands, is torn from its place and accompanies the body. But
strangest of allis the circumstance, that in more instances than one,
when the body has been recovered, nat a single mark of violence is
dispernibie: the man being stark dead.

‘The whole calamity, withthe falling form of Macey, was plainly
‘descried from the ship. Raising a piercing shriek—“The vial! the vial!”
‘Gabriel called off the terror-siricken crew from the further hunting of

the whale, This terrible event clothed the archangel with added

influence; because his credulous disciples believed that he had
specifically fore-announced it, instead of only making a general

prophecy, which any one might have dane, and so have chanced ta hit one
of many marks in the wide margin allowed. He became a nameless terror
to the ship.

Mayhew having concluded his narration, Ahab put such questions to him,
thal the stranger captain could not forbear inquiring whether he
intended to bunt the White Whale, fapportunity should offer. To which
