placad the blunted needle endwise on the top of it, and less strongly
hammered that, several times, the mate stil holding the tod as before
‘Then going through some small strange motions with it_whether
indispensable to the magnetizing of the steel, or merely intended to
augment the awe of the crew, is uncertain—he called for finen thread:
‘and moving to the binnacie, slipped out the two reversed needles there,
and horizontally suspended the sail-needie by its middle, over one of
the compass-cards. Al fist, the steel went round and round, quivering
and vibrating at either end; but at iast it setted to is place, when
Ahab, who had been intently watching for this result, stepped frankly
back from the binnacte, and pointing his stretched arm towards it,
exclaimed —“Look ye, for yourselves, if Ahab be not ard ofthe tevet
toadstone! The sun is East, and that compass swears it”

‘One after another they peared in, for nothing but their own eyes could
persuade such ignorance as theirs, and one affer another they stunk
away,

Innis Rery eyes of scorn and triumph, you then saw Ahab in all his
falal pride,

CHAPTER 425. The Log and Line,

While now the fated Pequod had been so tong afloat this vayage, the log
and line had but very seldom been in use. Owing to a confident reliance

upon other means of determining the vessel's place, some merchanimen,
and many whalemen, especially when cruising, whotly neglect io heave

the fag; though at the same time, and frequently mare for form's sake

than anything eise, regularly puting down upon the customary slate the
‘course steered by the ship, as well as the presumed average rate of
progression every hour, Ithad heen thus with the Pequod, The wooden

feel and angular log attached hung, tong untouched, just beneath the

sailing of the after bulwarks. Rains and spray had damped it; sun and

wind had warped it all the elements had combined to rota thing that

‘hung £0 idly. But heedless of all this, his mood saized Ahab, as he
happened to glance upon the reel, not many hours after the magnet

soene, and he temembered haw his quadrant was no more, and recatled his
‘frantic oath about the tevet fog and tine. The ship was sailing

piunginaly; astern the billows rolfed in rots.

“Forward, theret Meave the Jog”

‘Two seamen came. The golden-hued Tahitian and the grizzly Manxman.
“Take the reel, one of ye, Fiheave”

‘They went towards the extreme stem. on the ship's jee side, where the
deck, with the oblique energy of the wind, was now almost dipping into
the creamy, sidelong-sushing sea
