Spermaceli Whale Fisheries." in this book is an outline purporting to
be a "Picture of a Physeter of Spesmaceti whale, drawn by scale from
‘one tilled on the coast of Mexico, August, 2793, and hoisted on deck”
doubt not the captain had this veracious picture taken for the

benefit ofhis marines. To mention bat one thing about it, et me say
that ithas an eye which applied, according to the accompanying scale,
toa full grown sperm whale, would make the eye of that whale a
bow-window some five feet iong. Ah, my gallant captain, why did ye not
give us Jonah fooking out of that eye!

Nor are the most conscientious compilations of Natural History for the
benefit ofthe young and tender, free from the same heinousness of
‘mistake. Look at thal popular work "Goldsmith's Animated Nature "In
the abridged London edition of #807, there are plates of an alleged
“whale” and a “narwhale." }do not wish to seem inelegant, but this
‘unsightly whale looks much fike an amputated sow, and, as for the
narwhale, one glimpse at itis enough to amaze one. that in this
nineteenth century such a hippognif could be patmed for genuine upon
any intetigent public of schoolboys.

‘Then, again, in 1825, Bernard Germain, Countde Lacépéde, a great
naturalist. published a scientific systemized whale book, wherein are
several pictures ofthe different species of the Leviathan. All these
are not only incorrect, but the picture of the Mysticetus of Greeniand
whale (that is to say, the Right whale), even Scoresby, a tong
experienced man as touching that species, declares not to have its
epunterpartin nature.

But the placing of the cap-sheaf to allthis btundering business was
reserved for the scientific Frederick Cuvier, brother to the famous.

Baron. in 2838, he published a Natural History of Whales, in which he
gives what he cails a picture ofthe Sperm Whale. Before showing that
picture to any Nantucketer, you had best provide far your summary
‘etseat from Nantucket. In 2 word, Frederick Cuvier's Sperm Whale is
not a Sperm Whale, but a squash. Of course, he never had the benefit of
a whaling voyage (such men seldom have), but whenoe he derived that
picture, who can tel? Perhaps he got it as Nis scientific predecessor

in the same Reid, Desmarest, got one of his authentic abortions, that

fs, from a Chinese drawing. And what sort of ively tads with the

pencil those Chinese are, many queer cups and saucers inform us.

As for the sign-painters’ whales seen in the streets hanging over the
‘shops of oilddealers, what shall be said ofthem? They are generally
Richard fit whales, with dromedary humps, and very savage:
breakfasting on three or four sailor tarts, that is whaleboats full of
‘mariners: their deformities foundering in seas of blood and biue
paint

But these manifold mistakes in depicting the whale are not so very
surprising after al, Cansider! Most of the scientific drawings have
