‘twenty-eight feet, And this work was published so tats as A.D. 1825,

‘But will any whaleman believe these stories? No. The whale ofto-day is
as big as his ancestors in Piiny's time. And itever I go where Pliny

Js, [,a whaleman {more than he was), will make bold to tell him so.
Because !cannot understand how itis, that while the Egyptian mummies:
that were buried thousands of years before even Pliny was bomn, do not
measure g0 much in their coffins as a modem Kentuckian in his socks;
and while the cattle and other animais sculptured on the oldest

Egyptian and Nineveh tablets, by the relative proportions in which they
ate drawn, just as plainly prove that the high-bred, stallfed, prize

cate of Smithfield, not only equal, but far exceed in magnitude the
{attest of Pharaoh's fat kine; in the face of al this, twill not

‘admit that of all animals the whale alone should have degenerated

But stl another inquiry remains, one often agitated by the more
recondlte Nantucketers. Whether owing to the almost omniscient

fook-outs at the mastheads of the whale-ships, now penetrating even
through Behring’s straits, and into the remotest secret drawers and

fockers of the ward; and the thousand harpoons and lances darted aieng
ail continental coasis; the moot point is, whether Leviathan can tong
‘endure so wide a chase, and sp remorseless a havoc; whether he must not
at last be exterminated from the waters, and the last whale, tke the

last man, smoke his iast pipe, and then himself evaporate in the final

oft

Comparing the humped herds of whales with the humped herds of buffao,
‘which, not forty years ago, overspread by tens of thousands the

prairies of ilinais and Missouri, and shook their iron manes and

‘scowled with their thunder-clotted brows upon the sites of populous
river-capitals, where now the polite broker sells you land ata dottar

{an inch; in such a comparison an iresistible argument would seem
furnished, to show that the hunted whale cannot new eseape speedy
extinction

But you must took at this matter in every fight. Though se short a
period ago—not a good Hietime—the census ofthe buffato in thinois
‘exceeded the census of men now in Landon, and though at the present day
‘nat one horn of hoof of them remains in all that region: and though the
‘eause of this wondrous extermination was the spear of man; yet the far
different nature of the whale-hunt peremptosily forbids so inglosious

an end to the Leviathan. Forty man in one ship hunting the Sperm Whales
{or forty-eight months think they have done extremely well, and thank

‘God, fat last they carry home the ol of forty fish. Whereas, in the

days of the old Canadian and indian hunters and trappers of the West,
when the far west {in whose sunset suns stil ise) was a wildemess

and a virgin, the same number of maccasined men, for the same number of
‘months, mounted on horse instead of sailing in ships, would have stain

‘ot forty, bu forty thousand and more buffatoes; a fact that, feed

were, could be statistically stated,
