‘manifestation of itself, but within also seemed more than half
istrustisl of itself: “A better man than [ might well pass over in

thee what he would quickly enough resent in a younger man; aye, and in
a happier, Captain Ahab”

*Devist Dost thou then so much as dare to critically think of me?—On
deck"

“Nay, sit, not yet: }do entreat. And I do dare, sito be forbearing!
Shail we not understand each other better than hitherto, Captain Ahab?”

Ahab seized a joaded musket fram the rack (forming part of most
South-Sea-men's cabin furniture}, and pointing it towards Starbuck,
exclaimed: “There is one God that is Lord over the earth, and one.
Captain that is tard over the Pequod.—On deck”

For an instant in the flashing eyes ofthe mate, and his fery cheeks,
‘you would have aimost thought that he had really received the biaze of
the levelled tube. But, mastering his emotion, he half calmly rose, and
as he quitted the cabin, paused for an instant and said: “Thou hast
outraged, not insulted me, sir; but for that ask thee nol fo beware

of Starbuck; thou wouldst but laugh: but fet Ahab beware of Ahab.
beware of thyself, old man?

“He waxes brave, but nevertheless abeys; most careful bravery thai!”
murmured Ahab, as Starbuck disappeared. “What's that he said—Anab
beware of Ahab—there’s something there!" Then unconsciously using the
musket for a siaff, with an ifon brow he paced to and fro in the tite

cabin; but presently the thick plalls of his forehead relaxed, and

‘returning the gun to the rack, hie went io the deck,

“Thou art but teo geod a fellow, Starbuck,” he said lowly to the mate;
then raising fis voice to the crew: “Fur the tgallant-sails, and
close~eefthe top-sails fore and aft; back the main-yard: up Burton,
and break out in the main-hold.”

were perhaps vain to surmise exactly why twas, that as respecting
Starbuck, Ahab thus acted. ft may have been a flash of honesty in hin;
or mere prudential policy which, under the circumstance, imperiously
forbade the slightest symptom of open disaffection, however transient,
in the important chief officer of his ship. However it was, his orders.
were executed: and the Burtons were hoisted,

CHAPTER $10. Queequeg in His Coffin,

Upon searching, it was found that the casks fast struck into the hold
were perfectly sound, and that the teak must be further off. So, it

being calm weather, they broke out deeper and deeper, disturbing the
slumbers ofthe huge ground-tier butts; and from that black midnight
