‘upon its upper surface alone, an area of at least fity square feet.
‘The compact round body ofits roat expands into two broad, frm, Rat

palms of fukes, gradually shoaling away to fess than an inch in

thickness. At the oroich or junction, these fukes slightly overiag,

then sideways recede from each other like wings, leaving a wide vacancy
‘between. In no fiving thing are the lines of beauty more exquisitely
defined than in the crescentic borders of these fukes, Atits utmost
‘expansion in the full grown whale, the tail will considerably exceed
twenly feet across,

‘The entire member seems a dense webbed bed of welded sinews; but cut
into i and you find that three distinct stata campase it—upper,

‘middie, and tower. The fibres in the upper and fower layers, are tong

‘and horizontal; those of the middle one, very short, and running
crosswise between the outside fayers. This tune structure, as much as
anything else, imparis power to the tail To the student of old Roman,

walls, the middie layer will furnish a curious parallel to the thin

course oftiles always alternating with the stone in those wonderful

relies ofthe antique, and which undoubtedly contribute so much to the
‘great strength of the masonry.

But as if this vast iocal power in the tendinous tail were not enough,
the whole buik of the leviathan is knit over with a warp and woof of
muscutss fibres and filaments, which passing on either side the loins
‘and running down into the flukes, insensibly blend with them, and
‘argety contribute to their might, so that in the tail the confluent
‘measureless force of the whole whale seems concentrated to a point.
‘Could annihilation occur to matter, this were the thing to do i

Nor does this—its amazing strength, at all tend to cripple the graceful
flexion of its motions; where infantleness of ease undulates through 2
Tilanism of power. On the contrary, those mations derive their most
appalling beauty from it. Real strength never impairs beauty ar

harmony, butit often bestows it, and in everything imposingly

beautiful, strength has much to do with the magic, Take away the ted
tendons that al! over seem bursting from the marble in the carved
Hercules, and its charm would be gone. As devout Eckerman fifled the
Jinen sheet from the naked corpse of Goethe, he was overwhsimed with
the massive chest ofthe man, that seemed as a Raman triumphal arch,
When Angelo paints even God the Father in human form, mark what
rabusiness is there. And whatever they may reveal af the divine fove in
the Son, the soft, curled, hermaphsoditical Halian pictures, in which

his idea has been most successfully embodied: these pictures, so
destitute as they are of all brawniness, hint nothing of any power, but

the mere negative, feminine one of submission and endurance, which on
ail hands itis conceded, form the peculiar practical vides of his
teachings,

Such is the subti elasticity of the organ F reat of, that whether
‘wielded in sport, or in eamest, or in anger, whatever be the mond it
