tatitudes and longitudes, does the name of the White Sea exert such a
spectrainess over the fancy, while that of the Vellow Sea fulls us with
‘mmottal thoughts of long facquered mild aflernoons on the waves,
‘followed by the gaudiest and yet sleepiest of sunsets? Or, to choose &
wholly unsubstantial instance, purely addressed to the fancy, why, in
Teading the old fairy tales of Central Europe, does “the tall pale man”
ofthe Hartz forests, whose changeless patlor uncustiingly gfides
through the green of the groves—why is this phantom more terrible than
all the whooping imps of the Blacksburg?

Norisit, altogether, the remembrance ofher cathedral-tapoting
earthquakes, nor the stampedoes of her frantic seas; nor the
tearlessnese of arid skies that never rain; nor the sight ofher wide
field of leaning spires, wrenched cope-stones, and crosses all adroop
(ike canted yards of anchored fleets); and her suburban avenues of
house-wails fying over upon each other, as a tossed pack of cards—it
{is not these things alone which make tearlees Lima, the strangest,
saddest city thou can’st see. For Lima has taken the white veil, and
there is a higher horror in this whiteness of her woe. Old as Pizarro,
this whiteness keeps her ruins for ever new. admits not the cheerful
greenness of complete decay; spreads over her broken ramparis the rigid
pallor of an apoptexy that fixes its own distortions

know that, to the common apprehension, this phenomenon of whiteness
is not confessed to be the prime agent in exaggerating the terror of
objects otherwise terrible; nor to the unimaginative mind is there

aught of terror in those appearances whose awfulness to another mind
_aimiost solely consists in this one phenomenon, especially when
‘exhibited under any form at all approaching to muteness ar

universality. What ! mean by these hwo statements may perhaps be
respectively elucidated hy the following examples.

First The mariner, when drawing nigh the coasts of foreign lands, f
bby night he Rear the roar of breakers, stars to vigilance, and feels

Just enough of trepidation to sharpen ali his faculties, but under
precisely similar circumstances, Jet hia be called from his haremock to
view his ship sailing through a midnight sea of milly whiteness—as if
from encircling headiands shoals of combed white bears were swimming
round him, then he feels a sient, superstitious dread; the shrouded
phantom ofthe whitened waters is hortibie to him as a real ghost: in

vain the lead assures him he is stil of soundings; heart and heim

they both go down: he never resis til blue water is under him again,

Yet where is the mariner who wif tell thee, “Sir twas not so mush

the fear of striking hidden rocks, as the fear of hat hideous

whiteness that so stirred me?”

Second: To the native Indian of Peru, the continual sight ofthe
snow-howdahed Andes conveys naught of dread, except, perhaps, in the
mere fancying of the etemal frosted desolateness reigning at such vast
altitudes, and the natural conceit of what a feartuiness it would be to
