“Ginger jubl you gingeryy rascal! take thal? and run along with ye to
the lockers, and get something better. thape Ido na wrong, Mr
Starbuck. iis the captain's orders—grog for the harpooneer on a
whale”

 

“Enough, replied Starbuck, “only don’t hit him again, but.

*Oh, Inever hurt when [hil except when Ihit a whale or something of
thal sort and this fetlow's a weazel, What were you about saying,

“Only this: go down with him, and get what thou wantest thyseif"

When Stubb reappeared, he came with a dark flask in one hand, and 2
sort oftea-caddy in the other. The first contained strong spirits, and
was handed to Queequea; the second was Aunt Chariy's gif and that
was freely given to the waves.

‘CHAPTER 78. Stubb and Flask bil a Right Whale; and Then Have @ Talk
yer Him.

must be bome in mind that allthis time we have a Sperm Whale's
prodigious head hanging to the Pequod's side. But we must lett
sontinue hanging there a white till we can get a chance to attend to

it For the present other matters press, and the best we can do now for
the head, is to pray heaven the tackles may hold

Now. during the past night and forenoon, the Pequod had gradually
drifted into a sea, which, by its occasional patches of yellow bait,

‘gave unusual tokens of the vicinity of Right Whales, a species of the
Leviathan that but few supposed to be al this particular lime turking
anywhere near. And though al hands commonly disdained the capture of
those inferior creatures; and though the Pequod was not conmissioned to
‘cruise for them af al, and though she had passed numbers of them neat
the Crozetis without lowering a hoat: yet now that a Sperm Whale had
been brought alongside and beheaded, to the surprise ofall, he
announcement was made that a Right Whale should be captured that day,
iPopportunity offered

Nor was this tong wanting. Tall spouts were seen to leeward: and two
boats, Stubb's and Flask’s, were detached in pursuit, Pulling further
‘and further away, they at last became almost invisible to the men at

the mast-head. But suddenly in the distance, they saw a great heap of
tumuftuous white water, and soon after news came from aiof that one or
oth the boats must be fast. An interval passed and the boats were in
pizin sight, in the act of being dragged night towards the ship by the
towing whale. So close did the monster come ta the hul, that at frst
itseemed as ithe meant it matice; but suddenty going down in 2
maeisirom, within three rods of the planks, he wholly disappeared from
