Nor, considered aright, does it seem any argumentin favour ofthe
gradual extinction ofthe Sperm Whale, for example, that in former

‘years (the fatter part of the last century, say} these Leviathans, in

small pods, were encountered much oftener than at present, and, in
consequence, the voyages were not so prolonged, and were also much more
remunerative. Because. as has been elsewhere noticed, those whales,
influenced by some views to safety, now swim the seas in immense

caravans, so thal to a large degree the scattered solitaries, yokes,

‘and pods, and schools of other days are now aggregated into vast but

widely separated, unfrequent armies. Thatis all. And equally

fallacious seems the conceit, that because the co-catled whale-bone

whales no longer haunt many grounds in former years abounding with

them, hence that species also is dectining, For they are only being

daiven from promontory to cape; and if one coast is no fonger entivened

with their ets, then, be sure, some other and remoter stand has been

very recentty startied by the unfamiliar speciacte.

Furthermore: concerning these fast mentioned Leviathans, they have two
firm fortresses, which, in all human probabillty, wil for ever remain
impregnable. And as upon the invasion of their valleys, the frosty

Swiss have retreated to their mountains; so, hunted fromthe savannas:
‘and glades of the middle seas, the whale-bone whales can at fast resort
to their Polar citadets, and diving under the ultimate glassy barriers

and walls there, come up among icy fields and floes, and in a charmed
circle of everlasting December, bid defiance to all pursuit fom man

But as perhaps fly of these whale-bone whales are harpoaned for one
eachalot, some philosophers ofthe forecasiie have concluded that this:
positive havoc has already very seriously diminished their battalions.
But though for some time past a number of these whales, not iess than
43,000, have been annually stain on the nor west coast by the
Americans alone: yet there are considerations which sender even this
circumstance of ttle or no account as an opposing argument in this
matter,

Natural as itis to be somewhat incredulous concerning the populousness.
ofthe more enormous creatures of the globe, yet what shall we say to
Harto, the historian of Goa, when he tells us that at one hunting the

King of Siam took 4,000 elephants: that in those regions elephants are
‘fumerous as droves of cattle in the temperate climes. And there seems
19 reason to doubt that iTthese elephants, which have now been hunted
{or thousands af years, by Semiramis, by Porus, by Hannibal, and by all
the successive monarchs of the East—ifthey stil survive there in

great numbers, much more may the great whale outlast ail hunting, since
he has a pastu‘e to expatiate in, which is precisely twice as large as

all Asia, both Americas, Europe and Afica, New Holland, and all the
Isles of the sea combined

Moreover: we are to consider, that from the presumed great iongevity of
