and whether twas that he was not yet haif waked from his sleep (for
sailors sometimes go aloftin a transition stale), whether itwas thus
with the man, there is now no felting; but, be that as it may, he had
not been long at his perch, when a cry was heard—a cry and a
ushing—and tooking up, they saw a failing phantom in the air, and
Jooking down, a ite tossed heap of white bubbies in the biue ofthe

“The life-buoy—a tong stender cask—was dropped from the stern, whare it
always hung obedient to a cunning spring; but no hand rose to seize it,
and the sun having jong beat upon this cask ithad shrunken, so thattit
slowly filed, and that parched wood aiso filed at its every pore: and

the studded iron-bound cask followed the sailor to the bottom, as ifto
yleld him his piiow, though in sooth but a hard one,

And thus the first man of the Pequod that mounted the mast to fook out
for the White Whale, an the White Whale's own peculiar ground: that man
was swallowed up in the deep. But few, perhaps, thought of thal at the
time. Indeed, in some sort, they were not grieved at this event, at

east as a portent: for they regarded it, not as a foreshadowing of

evil in the future, but as the fulfilment of an evil already presaged.

‘They declared that now they knew the reason of those wid shrieks they
‘nad heard the night before. But again the old Manxman said nay.

‘The fost ife-buoy was now to be replaced: Starbuck was directed to see
to it; but as no cask of sufficient fighiness could be found, and as ia

the feverish eagemess of what seemed the approaching crisis of the
voyage, ali hands were impatient of any tof but what was directly
connecied with its final end, whatever that might prove to be:

therefore, they were going to leave the ship's stem unprovided with a
buoy, when by certain strange signs and inuendoes Queequeg hinted 2
‘int concerning his cofin

“A ife-buoy of a coffin? cried Starbuck, starting,
“Rather queer, that, should say," said Stubb.

“twill make a good enough one,” said Flask, “the carpenter here can
arrange it easily”

“Bring it up; there's nothing else for it” said Starbuck, after a
melancholy pause. “Rig it, carpenter: do not iook at me so—the coffin,
Hmean. Dost thou hear me? Rig it”

“And shai t nail down the Tid, sir?" moving his hand as with a hammer.
“aye!

“And shall !cauik the seams, sit?” moving his hand as with 9
cauiking-iron.
