fing tanded the ttte man high and dry on Wis shoulders. And here was
Flask now standing, Daggoo with one fifted arm furnishing him with a
breastband to lean against and steady himself by.

Atany time itis a strange sight to the tyro to see with what wondrous
‘pabitude of unconscious skill the whaleman will maintain an erect
posture in his boal, even when pitched about by the most rotously
perverse and cross-tunning seas. Stil more etrange to see him giddily
pesched upon the foggerhead itself, under such circumstances. But the
Sight ofits Flask mounted upon gigantic Daggoo was yet more

‘curious; for sustaining himseifwith a cool, indifferent, easy,

unthought of, barbaric majesty, he noble negro to every roll ofthe

sea harmoniously rolled his fine form. On his broad back, faxen-halred
Flask seemed a snow-flake. The bearer fooked nobler than the rider.
Though truly vivacious, tumultuous, ostentatious fille Flask would now
and then stamp with impatience, but not one added heave did he thereby
give to the negro’s lordly chest. So have seen Passion and Vanity
stamping the living magnanimous earth, but the earth did not alter her
tides and her seasons for that

Meanwhile Stubb, the third mate, betrayed no such far-gazing
solicitudes. The whales might have made one of their reguiar soundings,
not a temporary dive from mere fright, and ifthal were the case,

Stubb, as his wont in such cases, itseems, was resolved to solace the
tanguishing interval with his pipe. He withdrew it rom his hatband,
where he always wore itaslant ike a feather. He foaded it, and rammed
‘home the loading with his thumb-end; out hardly had he ignited his
maich across the rough sandpaper of his hand, when Tashtego, his
harponneer, whose eyes had been setting to windward tke two fixed
slats, suddenly dropped tke light from his erect attitude to his seat,
crying out in a quick phrensy of hurry, “Down, down all, and give
wayl_there they are”

To ajandsman, no whale, nor any sign ofa herring, woutd have been
visible al that moment, nothing but a toubled bit of greenish white

water, and thin scattered puffs of vapor hovering over it, and

suflusingly blawing off io leeward, fike the confused scud from white
rolling billows, The air around suddenly vibrated and tinged, as it

were, like the air over intensely heated plates of ron. Beneath this
atmospheric waving and curting, and partially beneath a thin layer of
water, afso, the whales were swioming. Seen in advance of ail the other
indications, the puffs of vapor they spouted, seemed their foreruaning
‘courlers and detached fying outriders.

Ail four boats were now in keen pursuit of that one spot of troubled
water and ait. But it bade fair to outstrip them: itflew on and on, a5
amass ofinterblending bubbles bome down a rapid stream fram the
bills.

“Pull, pull, my good boys,” said Starbuck, in the lowest possibte but
