‘The phantoms, for so they then seemed, were fitting on the other side
ofthe deck, and, with a noiseless celerity, were casting loose the
tackles and bands of the boat which swung there. This boat had always
been deemed one ofthe spare boats, though technically called the
aptain's, on account ofits hanging from the starboard quarter. The
‘igure that now siood by its bows was tall and swart, with one white
tooth evily protruding from its steel-ke fips. A rumpled Chinese

jacket of black cotton funsreally invested him, with wide black

trowsers ofthe same dark stuff But strangely crowning this ebonness
was a glistening white plaited turban, the tiving hair braided and

coiled round and round upon his head. Less swart in aspect, the
‘companions of this figure were of hat vivid, tiger-yellow complexion
peculiar to some of the aboriginal natives ofthe Manitlas;—a race
notorious for a certain diabolism of subtity, and by some honest white
‘mariners supposed to be the paid spies and secret confidential agents:
‘on the water ofthe devil, heir lord, whose counting-room they suppose
to be elsewhere.

‘While yet the wondering ship's company were gazing upon these
strangers, Ahab cried out to the white-turbaned old man al their head,
“All veady there, Fedallah?”

“Ready,” was the halt-hissed reply.

“Lower away then; d'ye hear?” shouting across the deck. “Lower away
there, [say

‘Such was the thunder of his voice, that spite of their amazement the
‘men sprang over the sail; the sheaves whirled round in the biocks; with
a wallow, the three boats dropped into the sea; while, with a
dexierous, off-handed daring, unknown in any other vocation, the
sailors, goatike, leaped down the rolling ship's side into the tossed
boats below.

Hardly had they putted out from under the ship's lee, when a fourth
keel, coming from the windward side, pulled round under the stem, and
showed the five strangers rowing Ahab, who, standing erect in the

stem, toudly hailed Starbuck, Slubb, and Flask, to spread themselves
widely, so as to cover a iarge expanse af water. Gut with ail heir

eyes again riveted upon the swart Fedaitah and his crew, the inmates of
the other boats obeyed not the command,

“Captain Ahab? said Starbuck,

“Spread yourselves,” ctied Ahab; “give way, all four boats. Thou,
Flask, pull out more to leeward?”

“Aye, aye, sit” cheerily cried litle King-Post, sweeping round his
great steering oar. ‘Lay back!” addressing his crew.
