never fancied broiling fowls:—though once broiled, judiciously
‘buttered, and judgmatically salted and peppered, there is no one who
‘will speak more respectully, nat to say reverentialy, ofa broiled

‘owl than Iwill tis out ofthe idalatrous dotings of he old

Egyptians upon broifed ibis and roasted river horse, that you see the
mummies of those creatures in theic huge bake-houses the pyramids,

No, when i go to sea, | go asa simple sailor, right before the mast,
‘plumb down into the forecastle, aloft there to the royal masthead,

True, they rather order me about some, and make me jump from spar to
spar, tite a grasshopper in a May meadow. And at fst, this sort of

thing is unpleasant enough. ft touches one's sense of honors,

particularly you come of an old established family in the land, the

Van Rensselaers, or Randotphs, or Hardicanutes. And more than all, it
Just previous to putting your hand into the ta-pot. you have been

lording it as a county echoolmaster, making the tallest boys stand in
awe of you. The transition is a keen one, bassure you, from 2
‘schoolmaster to a sailor, and requires a strong decoction of Seneca and
the Stoics to enable you to grin and bear it. But even this wears off

in time.

What oft if some old hunks of a sea-captain orders me to get a broom
and sweep down the decks? What does that indignity amount ta, weighed.
mean, in the scales of the New Testament? Do you think the archangel
‘Gabriel thinks anything the less of me, because t promplly and

respectfully obey that old hunks in that particular instance? Who ain't

a slave? Tell me thal. Wel, then, however the ald sea-capiains may

order me about—however they may thump and punch me about, Have the
salisfaction of knowing that it is ail right; that everybody else is

‘one way or other served in much the same way—either in a physical or
metaphysical point of view, that is; and so the universal thump is

passed round, and all hands should rub each other's shoulder-biades,
and be content,

Again, [always go to sea as a sallor, because they make a paint of
paying me for my trouble, whereas they never pay passengers a single
penny that! ever heard of. On the contrary, passengess themselves must
pay. And there is ail the difference in the world between paying and
‘being paid. The act of paying is perhaps the most uncomfortable
infliction that the two orchard thieves entailed upon us. Aut_being
paid_—what will compare with if? The urbane activity with which a man
receives money is teally marvellous, considering that we so earnestly
believe money to be the root ofall earthly il, and thaten no

account can a monied man enter heaven. An! how cheerfully we consign
ourselves to peraitiont

Finally, Falways go to sea as a sailor, because of the wholesome
‘exercise and pure air of the fore-castle deck. For as in this world
head winds are far more prevalent than winds from astesn (thatis, if
‘you never violate the Pythagorean maxim}, so for the most part the
