‘world, uniess forced to stammer out something by way of getting @
tiving. Ohf happy that the world 1s such an excetient listener!

Now, the spouting canal ofthe Sperm Whale, chiefly intended as itis,
for the conveyance of air, and for several feat ald along,

horizontally, just beneath the upper surface of his head, and a tittie
foane side; this curious canal Is very much fike a gas-pige laid down
ina cily on one side of a street. But the question returns whether

this gas-pipe is also a water-pipe; in other words, whether the spout
ofthe Sperm Whale is the mere vapor of the exhaled breath, or whether
‘that exhaled breath is mixed with water taken in at the mouth, and
digcharged through the splracie. itis certain that the mouth

indirectly communicates with the spouting canal; but it cannot be

proved that this is for the purpose of discharging water through the
spiracie. Because the greatest necessity for so doing would seem to be,
when in feeding he accidenialy takes in water. But the Sperm Whale's
food is far beneath the surface, and there he cannot spout even ithe
would. Besides, if you regard him very closely, and time him with your
watch, you will ind that when unmolested, there is an undeviating
shyme between the periods of his jets and the ordinary periods of
respiration

‘But why pester one with allthis reasoning on the subject? Speak out!
‘You have seen him spout; then deciare what the spout is, can you not
tell water from air? My dear sir, in this word itis not so easy to

settle thase plain things. thave ever found your plain things the
‘knoltlest of all And as for this whale spout, you might almost stand
init, and yet be undecided as to what itis precisely,

‘The central body of tis hidden in the snowy sparkling mist envetoping
it, and how can you certainly tefl whether any water fails from i

when, always, when you are close enough to 8 whale to get a close view
of his spout, he is in a prodigious commotion, the water cascading all
around him. And ifat such mes you should think that you really
perceived drops of moisture in the spout, how do you know that they are
‘not merely condensed from its vapor; or how do you know that they are
not those identical draps superficially todged in the spouthote

fissure, which is countersunk into the summit of the whale’s head? For
‘even when tranquilly swimming through the mid-day sea in a caira, with
his elevated hump sun-dried as a dromedary's in the desert; even then,
the whale always carties a smat! basin of water on his head, as under a
blazing sun you will sometimes see a cavity in a rook filled up with

Nor is it at al prudent for the hunter to be over curious touching the
precise nature of the whale spout. Iwill not do for him to be peering
{nto it, and puting his face in it. You cannot go with your piteher to
this fountain and flit, and bring it away. For even when coming into
slight contact with the outer, vapory shreds of the jet, which wit!
often happen, your skin will feverishly smart, from the scnidness of
