CHAPTER 56, Of the Less Erroneous Pictures of Whales, and the True
Pictures af Whaling Scenes,

In connexion with the monstrous pictures of whales, tam strongly
tempted here to enter upon those still more monstrous stories of hem
‘which are to be found in ceriain books, both ancient and modern,
especially in Pliny, Purchas, Hackuyl, Harris, Cuvier, ete. But pass
that matter by.

Hinow of only four published outlines of the great Sperm Whale,
Cofnett’s, Huggins's, Frederick Cuvier's, and Beate's. in the previous
chapter Coinett and Cuvier have been referred to, Huggins's is far
‘etter than theirs; but, by great odds, Beale's is the best. All

Beate's drawings ofthis whate are good, excepting the middle figure in
the picture of three whales in various attitudes, capping his second
chapier. His frontispiece, boats atlacking Sperm Whales, though no
doubt calculated to excite the civil scepticism of some parior men, is
admirably cosrect and lifesike in its general effect. Some ofthe

Sperm Whate drawings in J. Ross Browne are pretty correct in contour;
‘but they are wretshedly engraved. That is not his fautt though,

Ofthe Right Whale, the best outline pictures are in Scoresby; but they
ate drawn on too small a scale to convey a desirable impression. He has.
but one picture of whaling scenes, and thisis a sad deficiency,

because itis by such pictures only, when at all well done, that you

can derive anything like a truthful idea of the fiving whale as seen by

his tiving hunters.

But, taken for alin all, by far the finest, though in some details
‘not the most correct, presentations of whales and whaling scenes to be
anywhere found, are two large French engravings, weil executed, and
taken from paintings by one Gamery. Respectively, they represent
attacks on the Sperm and Right Whale. In the frst engraving a nable
Spemn Whale is depicted in full majesty of might, just risen beneath

the boat from the profundities of the ocean, and bearing high in the

air upon his back the terrife wreck ofthe sloven planks, The prow af

the boats partially unbroken, and is drawn just balancing upen the
‘monster's spine; and standing in that prow, for that one single
incompulabie flash of time, you behold an oarsman, haf shrouded by the
incensed boiling spout ofthe whale, and in the act of leaping, as it

from a precipice. The action of the whole thing is wonderfully good and
true. The haitemptied fine-tub floats on the whitened sea; the wooden
poles ofthe spilied harpoons obliquely bob in ithe heads of the
awimming erew are seattered about the whale in contrasting expressions.
of affight, while in the black stormy distance the ship is bearing

down upon the scone. Serious fault might be found with the anatomical
detaits of this whale, but tet thal pass; since, for the fife of me, |

could not draw so good a ons.
