harpoon? Lay it across here. —Rig-a-dig, dig, dig! huzzat Ob for a game
‘eock now to sit upon his head and crow! Queequeg dies gamel_—mind ye
that; Queequeg dies game!take ye good heed of that; Queequeg dies
game! |eay; game, game, game! but base litte Pip, he died a coward,
‘ied all a'shiver—ut upon Pip! Hark ye: ifye find Pip, tell al he

Antilles he's a runaway, a coward, a coward, a coward! Tell them he
jumped from a whale-boat! fd never beat my tambourine over base Pip,
‘and hail him General, ifhe were once more dying here. No, naf shame
‘upon all cowards—shame upon them! Let ‘em go drown lke Pip, that
jumped from a whale-boat. Shame! shame!”

During atl this, Queequeg tay with closed eyes, as ifin a dream. Pip
was ied away, and the sick man was replaced in his hammock.

But now that he had apparently made every preparation for death; now
that his coffin was proved a good fil, Queequeg suddenly raitied: soon
there seemed no need ofthe carpenter's box. and thereupon, when some
expressed their delighted surprise, he, in substance, said, thal the

‘cause of his sudden convalescence was this;—at a critical moment, he
‘had just recalled alittle duty ashore, which he was leaving undone;

and therefore had changed his mind about dying: he could not die yet,

he averted. They asked him, then, whether to five or die was a matter
ofthis own sovereign will and pleasure. He answered, oorlainly. in
‘word, itwas Queequeg's conceit, that ita man made up his mind to

live, mare sickness could not kil him: nething hut a whale, or a gale,

‘or some violent, ungovernable, unintelligent destroyer of that sort.

Now, there is this noteworthy difference between savage and civilized,
that while a sick, civilized man may be six months convalescing
‘generally speaking, a sick savage is almost haif-well again in a day.
So. in good time my Queequeg gained strong and al length after
siting on the windlass for a few indotent days (out eating with a
vigorous appetite} he suddenly teaped to his feet, threw out his arms
and legs, gave himselfa good stretching, yawned a fitte bit, and than
springing into the head of his hoisted boat, and poising a harpoon,
pronounced himself fit for a fight.

With a witd whimsiness, he now used his coffin for a sea-chest, and
emptying into it his canvas bag of clothes, set them in order there

Many spare hours he spent, in carving the tid with ail manner of
grotesque figures and drawings, and it seemed that hereby he was.
stiving, in his rude way. to copy partis of the twisted tattooing on

‘nis body. And this tatlooing had been the work of a departed prophet,

and seer of his island, who, by those hieroglyphic marks, had waitten

out on his body a complete theory of the heavens and the earth, and a
‘mystical teatise on the art of attaining truth, so that Queequeg in

his own proper person was a riddie to unfold; a wondrous work in one
volume; but whose mysteries not even himself could read, though his own,
live heart beat against them: and these mysteries were therefore

destined in the end to moulder away with the living parchment whereon
