needs, and ye'll have plenty of them in the tropic voyage ye go. Be
careful in the hunt, ye mates. Don't stave the boats needtessly, ye
harpooneers; good white cedar plankis raised full three per cent,

within the year. Don't forget your prayers, either. Mv. Starbuck, mind
that cooper don't waste the spare staves. Oh! the sall-needtes are in
the green locker! Don't whale it too much a Lord's days, men: but

don’t miss a fair chance either, that's rejecting Heaven's good gifts.
Have an eye to the molasses tierce, My. Slubb; itwas a ite leaky, |
thought. If ye touch at the islands, Mr. Flask, beware of fornication
Good-bye, good-bye! Don't keep that cheese too tong down in the hold,
Mr. Starbuck; 117 spo Be careful with the butler—twenty cents the
pound itwas, and mind ye,"

“Come, come, Captain Bildad: stop palavering —away" and with that,
Peleg hurried him over the side, and both dropt inta the boat.

Ship and boat diverged; the cold, damp night breeze blew between: 2
screaming gull flew overhead: the two hutls wildty rolled; we gave
three heavy-hearted cheers, and blindly plunged lke fate into the fone
Atlantic.

(CHAPTER 25, The Lee Shore.

Some chapters back, one Bulkington was spoken of, a tail, newlanded
‘mariner, encountered in New Bedford at the ion,

‘When on that shivering winter's night, the Pequod thrust her vindictive
ows into the cold maficious waves, who should I see standing at her
‘heim but Butkingtont tooked with sympathetic awe and fearfulness upon
the man, who in mid-winter just landed from a four years’ dangerous:
‘voyage, could so unrestingly push off again for stil another

tempestuous term, The land seemed scorching to his feet. Wanderfullest
things are ever the unmentionabie; deep memories yield no epitaphs;,
this six-inch chapter is the stoneless grave of Buikington. Let me only
say that i fared with him as with the siorm-tossed ship, that

miserably drives along the leeward land. The post would fain give
succor; the portis pitiful: in the port is safety, comfor,

earthstone, supper, warm blankets, fiends, all that's kind to our
‘mortalities. But in that gale, the port, the fand, is that ship's

direst jeopardy; she must fy all hospitality; one touch of and,

‘though it but graze the keel, would make her shudder through and
through. With al her might she crowds ai! sail off shore; in so doing,
{ights ‘gainst the very winds that fain would blow her homeward: seeks
all the teshed sea’s tandiessness again, for efuge’s sake forlornly
sushing into pedi; Her only fiend her bitterest oer

 

know ye now, Butkington? Glimpses do ye seem to see of that mortally
iniolerabie truth; that al deep, eamest thinking is but the intrepid
‘effort ofthe soul to keep the open independence of her seai white the
