affair.

‘CHAPTER 72, The Monkey-Rope,

In the tumultuous business of cutting-in and attending to a whale,
there is much running backwards and forwards among the crew. Now hands
are wanted here, and then again hands are wanted there. There is no
staying in any one place; for at one and the same time everything has

to be done everywhere. itis much the same with him who sndeavors the
Sescription ofthe scene, We must now retrace our way a title. twas
mentioned that upon first breaking round in the whate’s back, the
blubber-hook was inserted into the original hole there cut by the

‘spades of the mates. But how did so clumsy and weighty a mass as that
same hook get fixed in that hole? lt was inserted there by my

articular rend Queequeg, whose duty itwas, as harpooneer, to
‘descend upon the monster's back for the special purpose referred to.

But in very many cases, circumstances require that the harpooneer shall
remain on the whaie til the whole fensing or sipping operation is
concluded. The whale, be it abserved, lies almost entirely submerged,
‘excepting the immediate parts operated upon. So down there, some ten
‘feet below the level of the deck, the poor harpooneer founders about,
‘naif on the whale and halfin the water, as the vast mass revolves tike

2a tread-mit beneath him. On the occasion in question, Queequeg figured
In the Highiand costume—a shirt and socks—in which to my eyes, at
least, he appeared to uncommon advantage; and no one had a better
chance to ahserve him, as will presently be seen

Being the savage's bowsman, that is, he person who pulled the bow-oer
in his boat (the second one from forward), it was my cheerful duty to

attend upon him while taking that hard-scrabbie scramble upon the dead
whale's back. You have seen liaian organ-boys holding a dancing-ape by
‘atong cord, Just so, from the ship's steep side, did (hold Queequeg

down there in the sea, by whatis technically catied in the fishery a
monkey-rape, attached to a strong stip of canvas Delted round his

waist

was a humorously pesious business for both of us. For, before we
proceed further, it must be said that the monkey-rope was fast at both
‘ends; fast fo Queequeg's broad canvas belt, and fast to my narrow
eather one. So that for better or for worse, we two, for the time,

were wedded, and should poor Queequeg sink o rise no more, then both
usage and honor demanded, that instead of cutting the cord, it should
‘drag me down in his wake. So, then, an elongated Siamese ligature
united us, Queequeg was my own inseparable twin brother: nor could F
any way get sid of the dangerous liabitties which the hempen bond
entailed,

So strongly and metaphysically did tconcelve of my situation then,
that white earnestly watching his motions, I seemed distinctly to
