insignificant bit of black wood? Impossibie! But what is worship?—to do
the wil of God—_that_is worship. And whatis the will ofGod?—1o do

to my fellow man whal ! would have my fellow man to do to me—_that_is
the wil! f God, Now, Queequeg is my fellow man. And whatdo twish
that his Queequeg would do to ma? Why, unite with me in my particular
Presbyterian form of worship. Consequently, Fmust then unite with him

in his; ergo, | must turn idolator. So [kindled the shavings; helped

prop up the innocent ite idol: offered fim bumt biscuit with

‘Queequeg; satamed before him twice or thrice; kissed his nose; and that
done, we undressed and went fo bed, at peace with our own consciences
and ail the world. But we did not go to sleep without some fle chat

 

How itis | know not, but there is no place fike a bed for confidential
sisciosures between ffiends, Man and wife, they say, there open the
very bottom oftheir souts to each other: and some old couples often
fie and chat over old times til nearly moming. Thus, then, in our
‘hearts! honeymoon, lay |and Queequeg—a cosy, loving pak.

CHAPTER 11. Nightgown,

We fad tain thus in bed, chatting and napping at short intervals, and
‘Queequeg now and then affectionately throwing his brown tatlooed fags.
‘over mine, and then drawing them back; eo entirely sociable and free
and easy were we: when, at last, by reasan of our confabuiations, what
litte sappishness remained in us altogether depatied, and we felt ike
getting up again, though day-break was yet some way down the future.

‘Yes, we became very wakeful; so much so that our recumbent position
‘began to grow wearisome, and by litte and lite we found ourselves
siting up; the clothes weil tucked around us, leaning against the
‘nead-board with our four knees drawn up close together, and our two
noses bending over them, as ‘four kneepans were warmling-pans. We felt,
very nice and snug, the more so sinoe it was so chilly out of doors;
indeed out of bed-ciothes too, seeing that there was no fire In the

roam, The more £0, | say, because truly io enjoy bodily warmth, some
small part of you must be cold, for there is no quality in this world

that is not what itis merely by contrast. Nothing exists in self. If

you flatter yourself that you are all over comfortable, and have been

80 2 fong time, then you cannat be said to be comforiable any more. But
if, tike Queequeg and me in the bed. the tip of your nose oF the crown

of your head be slightly chilled, why then, indeed, in the general
‘consciousness you fee! most delightfully and unmistakably warm. For

this reason a sleeping apartment should never be furnished with a fre,
which is one of the luxurious discamforis ofthe tich. For the height,

of this sort af deliciousness is to have nothing but the blanket,

between you and your smugness and the cold of fhe outer alr. Then there
you tie lke the one warm spark in the heart of an arctic orystal

We had been sitting in this crouching manner for some time, when all at
