of her young-armed old husband's hammer, whose teverbsrations, muffled
‘by passing through the floors and wails, came up to her, not unsweet,

fn her nursery, and 50, o stout Labor's iron tuttaby, the btacksmith’'s
infants were rocked to stumber.

‘Oh, woe an woel Oh, Death, why canst thou not sometimes be timely?
Hadst thou taken this old blacksmith to thyself ere bis full ruin came
‘upon him, then had the young widow had a deticious grief, and her
orphans a tuly venerable, legendary sive to dream of in their after
‘eats; and aif of them a care-kiling competency. But Death plucked
down some virtuous elder brother, on whose whisting daily tail solely
‘hung the responsibitties of some other family, and eft the worse than
useless old man standing, til the hideous rot of fife should make him
easier to harvest,

‘Why tell the whole? The blows ofthe basement hammer every day grew
more and more between; and each blow every day grew fainter than the
‘ast, the wife sat frozen at the window, with tearless eyes,

aglitlesingly gazing into the weeping faces of her children: the bellows

fel; the forge choked up with cinders; the house was sold: the mother
dived down into the tong church-yard grass; her children twice followed
her thither, and the houseless, familyless old man staggered off a
vagabond in crape; his every woe unreverenced: his grey head a scam to
flaxen curls!

Death seems the only desirable sequel for a career like this; but Death
Js only a taunching inio the region of the strange Untried, itis but

the first satutation to the possibilities of the immense Remote, the

Wild, the Watery, the Unshored; therefore, to the deathJonging eyes of
such men, who stil have feft in them some interior compunctions
‘against suicide, does the all-contributed and all-recentive ocean
atiuringly spread forth his whole plain of unimaginable, taking

terrors, and wonderful, new-life adventures; and from the hearts of
infinite Pacifics, the thousand mermaids sing ta them—Come hither,
broken-hearted; here is another life without the guilt fintermmediate
death; here are wonders supernatural, without dying for them. Come
hither! bury thyselfin a ite which, to your now equally abhored and
‘abhorting, landed world, is more oblivious than death. Come hither! put
up _thy_gravestone, too, within the churchyard, and come hither, il
we marry thee!”

Hearkening to these voices, East and West, by early sunrise, and by
{ail ofeve, the blacksmith’s soul responded, Aye, f come! And so Perth
went awhating.

CHAPTER 143, The Forge.

With matted beard, and swathed in a bristling shark-skin apron, about
mid-day, Perth was standing between his forge and anvil the latter
