‘guewale, clearly cut against the alternating depressions of the watery
hosizon; while at the other end of the boat Ahab, with one army, fike a
encer's, thrawn half backward into the air, as ifte counterbalance

any tendency to tip; Ahab was seen steadily managing his steering oar
as in a thousand hoat towerings ere the White Whale had tom hire. All
‘atonce the outstretched asm gave a peculiar motion and then semained
{ixed, while the boat's five oars were seen simultaneously neaked. Boat
and crew sat motionless on the sea. Instantly the three spread boats in
the rear paused on their way. The whales had imeguiarly settied bodily
down into the biue, thus giving no distantly discemibie token of the
‘movement, though from his closer vicinity Ahab had observed it

“Every man fonk out along his oars?” cried Starbuck, “Thou, Queequea,
stand up

Nimbly springing up on the triangular raised box in the bow. the savage
slood erect there, and with intensely eager eyes gazed off towards the
spot where the chase had fast been descried. Likewise upon the extreme
stern ofthe boat where itwas also trangularly platformed fevel with

the gunwale, Starbuck himself was geen coolly and adroitly balancing
‘himself to the jerking tossings of his chip ofa craft, and silently

eyeing the vast blue eye ofthe sea

Not very far distant Flask's boat was also lying breathlessly stil;
its commander recklessly standing upon the top of the loggerhead, 2
stout sort of post moted in the keel, and rising some two feet above

the level ofthe stemn platform. tis used for catching turns with the
‘whale fing. Hs top is not more spacious than the palm ofa man’s hand,
‘and standing upon such a base as that, Flask seemed perched at the
masthead of some ship which had sunk to all but her trucks. But litte
kking-Post was small and short, and at the same time litte King-Post
was full ofa large and tail ambition, so that this loggerhead
stand-point af his did by no means satisfy King-Post.

“hean't see three seas of fip us up an oar there, and fet me on to
that”

Upon thie, Daggoo, with either hand upon the gunwale to steady his way,
swiftly siid aft, and then erecting himseif volunteered fis fofly
shoulders for a pedesial

“Good a masthead as any, sir. Will you mount”

“That tw, and thank ye very much, my fne fellow, only wish you
fifty fet taller”

Whereupon planting his feet frety against two opposite planks of the
boat, the gigantic negro, stooping a lite, presented his flat paim to
Flask’ foot, and then putting Flask’s hand on Nis hearse-plumed head
‘and bidding him spring as he himseif should toss, with one dexterous
