In the fist place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other ponderous,
things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green, and
which no single man can possibly fit_this vast bunch of grapes was
swayed up to the main-top and firmly lashed to the lower mast-head, the
strongest paint anywhere above a ship's deck. The end of the
hawser-tike rope winding through these inticacies, was then conducted
to the windlass, and the huge lower block of the tackles was swung over
the whale; to this biock the greal blubber hook, weighing some one
hundred pounds, was atlached. And now suspended in stages over the
side, Starbuck and Stubb, the mates, armed with their ong spades,
began cutting hoe in the body for the insertion ofthe hook just

above the nearest of the two side-fins. This done, a bread,

semicircular fine is cut round the hole, the hook is inserted, and the
main body of the crew striking up a wild chorus, now commence heaving
inane dense crowd at the windlass. When instantly, the entire ship
careena over on her side; every bolt in her starts ike the nal-heads
ofan old house in frosty weather, she trembles, quivers, and nods her
‘fighted mastheads to the sky. More and more she Jeans over to the
whale, while every gasping heave of the windlass is answered by a
helping heave from the billows: ti at last, a swift, starting snap

is heard; with a great swash the ship rolls upwards and baciovards from
the whale, and the tiumphant tackle rises into sight dragging after it

the disengaged semicircular end of the fist stip of hlubber. Now as

the blubber envelopes the whate precisely as the rind does an orange,
50 is it stipped off fram the body precisely as an orange is sometimes
stripped Dy spiralizing it. For the strain constantly kept up by the
windlass contiauaily keeps the whale rotting over and aver in the

water, and as the blubber in one sbip uniformly peels off along the

tine called the “scarf” simultsneously cut by the spades of Starbuck

and Siubb, the mates; and just as fast as itis thus peeled off, and
indeed by that very act itself its ail the time being hoisted higher

‘and higher aloft il its upper end grazes the main-top; the men at the
windlass then cease heaving, and for a moment or two the prodigious
blood-dripping mass sways to and fro as iffet down from the sky, and
‘every one present must lake good heed to dodge it when it swings, else
itmay box his ears and pitch him headiong overboard

‘One ofthe attending harpooneers now advances with a long, keen weapon
called a boarding-sword, and watching fis chance he dexterousty slices
ut a considerable hole in the lower part of the swaying mass. into

this hole, the end of the second alternating great tackle is then

hooked s0 as to retain a hold upon the biubber, in order to prepare for

what follows. Whereupon, this accomplished swordsman, waming ali hands
to stand off, once more makes 2 scientific dash at the mass, and with 2

few sideiong, desperate, lunging siicings, severs it completely in

‘twain; 50 that while the short jower partis stl fast, the tong upper

strip, calied a blanket-piece, ewings clear, and is all ready for

Jowering, The heavers forward now resume their song, and while the one
tackle is peeing and hoisting a second strip from the whale, the other

is slowly slackened away, and down goes the first strip through the
