{nto an easy chair. What he thought of death itsef, there is no
telling. Whether he ever thought oft at all, might be a question;

fut, iThe ever did chance to cast his mind that way afer a

comfortable dinner, no doubt, tke a good sailor, he took itto be a
sortofcail afthe watch to tumble aloft, and bestir themselves there,

about something whieh he would find out when he obeyed the order, and
ot sooner.

What, perhaps, with other things, made Stubb such an easy-going,
unfearing man, so cheerily tudging off with the burden of ife in a
world full of grave pediars, all bowed to the ground with their packs;
what helped to bring about that almost impious good-humor of his; that
thing must have been his pipe. For, fke his nose, his shor, black
litle pipe was one ofthe reguiar features of his fave. You would
almost as soon have expected him to turn out of his bunk without his,
nose as without his pipe. He kept a whole row of pipes there ready
toaded, stuck in a rack, within easy reach of his hand: and, whenever
‘ne turned in, he smoked them all out in succession, tighting ane from
the other to the end of the chapter, hen loading them again to be in
readiness anew. For, when Stubb dressed, instead of frst putting his,
{eps into his trowsers, he put his pipe into his mouth

| say this continual smoking must have been one cause, atleast, of hie
peculiar disposition: for every one knows that this earthly ai,

whether ashore or affoat, is teribly infected with the nameless

‘miseries of the numberless mortals who have died exhaling it; and as in
time of the cholera, some people go about with a campharated
handkerchiefta their mouths; so, likewise, against ai mortal

‘ribulations, Stubb's tobacco smoke might have operated as a sort of
disinfecting agent

‘The third mate was Flask, a native of Tisbury, in Martha's Vineyard. A
short, stout, ruddy young fellow, very pugnacious concerning whales,
who somehow seemed to think that the great teviathans had personally
and hereditatlly affonted him; and therefore it was a sort of point of
‘honor with him, to destroy them whenever encountered. So utterly lost
was he to all sense of reverence for the many marvels oftheir malestic
‘bullc and mystic ways; and so dead to anything like an apprehension of
any possible danger from encountering them: that in his poor opinion,
the wondrous whale was buta species of magnified mouse, or atieast
water-al, requiring only afitte circumvention and some small
application of time and trouble in order to kill and boil. This,

ignorant, unconscious fearlessness of his made hima litle waggish in
the matier of whates, he followed these fish for the fun of it, and a

thee years’ voyage round Cape Horn was only a jolly joke that lasted
that length of ime. As a carpenter's nails are divided into wrought

fails and cut nails; so mankind may be similarly divided. Little Flask
was one ofthe wrought ones; made to clinch light and last feng. They
called bim king-Post on board of the Pequod; because, in form, he could
‘be well likened to the short, square timber known by that name in
