rosy-sirong; but with whom one sometimes loves to sit, and fee!
oor-devilish, too; and grow convivial upon tears, and say to them
biuntly, with full eyes and empty giasses, and in not aitogether
unpleagant sadness—Give itup, Sub-Subst For by how much the more
‘pains ye take to please the word, by so much the more shall ye for
‘ever go thankless! Would that | could clear out Hampton Court and the
Tuileries for ye! But guip down your tears and hie aioftto the
royal-mast with your hearts, for your friends who have gone before

are clearing out the seven-storied heavens, and making refugees of
Jong-pampered Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael, against your coming,
Here ye stike but splintored hearts together—there, ye shall stike
unsptinterable glasses!

EXTRACTS.
“And God created great whales” —_Genesis_

“Leviathan maketh a path to shine after him; One would think the deep
to be hoary” —_Job_.

 

“Now the Lord had prepared a great fish to swaiiow up Jonah”
_donah_,

 

“There go the ships; there is that Leviathan whom thou hast made to
play therein.” —_Psals_.

“in that day, the Lord with his sore, and great, and strong sward,
shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, even Leviathan that
croaked serpent, and he shal slay the dragon thatisin the sea”
_isaiah_.

 

“And whal thing soever besides cometh within the chaos ofthis
‘monster's mouth, be it beast, boat, of stone, dawn it goes all
incontinently that fout great swallow of his, and perisheth in the
bottomless guif afhis paunch. —_Holtand’s Plutarch's Morals_.

 

“The indian Sea breedeth the most and the biggest fishes that are:
‘among which the Whaies and Whirpoolss calted Baizene, take up as
much in fength as four acres or arpens of and.” —_ Holland's Pliny_.

“Scaroely had we proceeded two days on the sea, when about suntise a
great many Whales and other monsters of the sea, appeared. Among the
former, one was of a most monstrous size... This came towards us,
open-mouthed, raising the waves on all sides, and beating the sea
‘before him into a foam." —_Tooke's Lucian_. “_The True History_”

 

 

“He visited this county also with a view of catching horse-whales,
