upon the fom or handle of every man’s oar, so that itjogs against his
wrist in rowing: and also passing between the men, as they alternately

sit at the opposite gunwaies, to the feaded chooks or grooves in the
extreme pointed prow ofthe boat, where a wooden pin or skewer the size
ofa common qui, prevents it ram slipping out. From the chocks it

‘pangs in a slight festoon over the bows, and is then passed inside the
boat again; and same ten or twenty fathoms (calted box-fine} being
coiled upon the box in the bows, t continues its way to the gunwale

till afte further af, and is then attached to the short-warp—the

‘rope which is immediately connected with the frarpoon; but previous to
‘that connexion, the short-warp goes through sundry mystifieations too
tedious to detail

“Thus the whale-tine folds the whole boat in is complicated coils,
twisting and writhing around itin aimost every direction. AN the

arsmen are involved in its peritous contortions, so that to the raid

eye ofthe tandsman, they seem as indian jugglers, with the deadtiest
snakes sportively festooning their limbs. Nor can any son of mortal
‘woman, for the First time, seat himself amid those hempen intricacies,

2nd while straining his ulmost al the oar, bethink hima that at any

unknown instant the harpoon may be darted, and all these horrible
contortions be putin play fike singed fightnings; he cannot be thus
‘circumstanced without a shudder that makes the very marrow In his banes
to quiver in him ike a shaken jelly. Yet habit_strange thing! what

cannot habit accomplish?—Gayer saities, more mesry mirth, better jokes,
‘and brighter repastees, you never heard over your mahogany, than you
‘will hear over the half-inch white cedar ofthe whale-boat, when thus

‘nung in hangman's noses: and, ike the six burghers of Catais before
King Edward, the sixmen composing the crew pull into the jaws of

death, with a hatter around every neck, as you may say.

Pechaps a very title thought will now enable you to account for those
repeated whaling disasters—some few of which are casually chronicled—of
this man or that man being taken out of the boat by the tine, and fost,

For, when the tine is darting out, to be seated then In the boat, is

{ike being seated in the midst of the manifold whizzings ofa

steam-engine in ful play, when every fying beam, and shaft, and

wheel, is grazing you. t1is worse; for you cannot sit motiontess in

the heart of these perils, because the boat is rocking tke a cradie,

and you are pitched one way and the other, without the slightest

‘warning; and only by a veriain seif-adjusting buoyancy and
simullanepusness of volition and action, can you escape being made a
Mazeppa of, and run away with where the ail-seeing sun himself could
never pierce you out

Again: as the profound ealm which only spparentty precedes and
prophesies ofthe siom, is perhaps more awful than the storm itself
for, indeed, the calm is but the wrapper and envelape of the storm, and
‘contains iin itself, as the seemingly harmless rife holds the fatal
powder, and the hail, and the explosion; so the graceful repose of the
