Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long precisely—having
{ite or ne money in my purse, and nothing particular to interest me

bn shore, thought I would sail about alte and see the watery part

ofthe wosld. His a way Have of driving offthe spleen and

regulating the circulation. Whenever I find myseif growing grim about

the mouth; whenever itis a damp, drizzly November in my sout; whenever
Hind myseif involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses, and

‘bringing up the rear of every funeral f meet: and especially whenever

my hypos get such an upper hand of me, that it requires a strong moral
principle to prevent me from deliberately stepping into the street, and
‘methodically knocking people's hats off—then, account thigh time to
get to sea as soon as fcan. This is my substiute for pistol and bal

Wath a philosophical flourish Cato throws himself upan his sword: |
‘quietly take to the ship. There te nothing surprising in this. they

‘but knew i, almost ail men in their degree, some time or other,

cherish very nearly the same feelings towards the ocean with me,

‘There now is your insular city of the Manhatioss, belted round by
wharves as Indian isles by coral reets—commeree surrounds it with her
surf Right and tef, the streets take you waterward. fs extreme

downtown is the battery, where that noble mole Is washed by waves, and
‘0oled by breezes, which a few hours previous were aut of eight of

fand, Look at the crowds af water-gazers there,

Circumambutate the city ofa dreamy Sabbath aftemoon. Go from Corlears
Hook to Coenties Stip, and from thence, by Whitehall, northward, What

do you see?—Posted like silent sentinals ail around the town, stand
thousands upon thousands of morlal men fixed in ocean reveries. Some
teaning against the epiles; some seated upon the pler-heads; some
looking over the bulwarks of ships from China; some high aioftin the
rigging, as if stiving to get a stil batter seaward peep. But these

are all landsmen; of week days pent up in lath and plaster—tied to
‘counters, nailed fo benches, clinched to desks, How then is this? Are

the green fields gone? What do they here?

But took! here come more crowds, pacing straight for the water, and
seemingly bound for a dive. Strange! Nothing wil! content them but the
exiremest limit of the land; foitering under the shady lee of yonder
warehouses will nat suffice. No. They must get just as nigh the water
as they possibly can without falling in. And there they stand—miles of
them leagues. Inlanders all, they come from lanes and alleys, streets
and avenues—novth, east, south, and west. Yet here they all unite. Tell
me, does the magnetic virue of the needies ofthe compasses of all
those ships attract them thither?

‘Once more. Say you ate in the country; in some high land of lakes. Take
‘almost any path you please, and tan to one it carries you down in a
dale, and leaves you there by a pool in the stream. There is magicin

it Let the most absent-minded of men be plunged in his deepest
reveries—stand that man on his fegs, set his feet a-going, and he will
