the Persian Guifand Red Sea, such a supposition would involve the
complete circumnavigation of all Afica in three days, not to speak of
the Tigris waters, near the site of Nineveh, being too shallow for any
whale to swim in. Besides, this idea of Jonah’s weathering the Cape of
‘Good Hape at eo early a day would wrest the honor of the discovery of
that great headiand from Bartholemew Diaz, its reputed discoverer, and
0 make modern history a iar.

‘But al these foolish arguments of old Sag-Harbor only evinced his
‘foolish pride of reason—a thing stil more reprehensible in him, seeing
‘hal he had but litle tearning except what he had picked up from the

sun and the sea. fsay it only show's his foolish, impious pride, and
abominable, devilish rebellion against the reverend cleray. For by 2
Postuguese Cathotic priest, this very idea of Jonah’s going fo Nineveh

via the Cape af Good Hope was advanced as a signal magnification ofthe
‘general miracle, And go it was. Besides, to this day, the highly
enlightened Turks devoutly betieve in the historical stary of Jonah,

And some three centuries ago, an English traveller in oid Harris's
Voyages, speaks ofa Turkish Mosque builtin honor of Jonah, in which
Mosque was a miaculous lamp that bumt without any ol,

CHAPTER 84, Pitchpoting,

‘Fo make them run easily and ewifly, the axles of carriages are
anointed: and for much the same purpose, some whalers perform an
analogous operation upon their boat, they grease the bottom. Nor isit
to be doubted that as such a procedure can do.no ham, it may possibly
be of no contemplible advantage; considering that olf and water are
hostie; that oi! is a sliding thing, and that the object in view is to

make the Doat slide bravely. Queequeg believed strongly in anointing
hhis boat, and one moming not iong after the German ship Jungirau
disappeared, took more than customary pains in that occupation,
crawling under its bottom, where it hung over the side, and mubbing in
the unciuousness as though diligently seeking to insure a crop of hair
from the craft's bald keel, He seemed to be working in obedience to
some partioular presentiment. Nor did it remain unwarranted by the
event.

‘Towards noon whales were raised; but so soon as the ship sailed down to
them, they turned and fled with swift peecipitancy, a disordered
flight, as of Cleopatra's barges from Actium.

Nevertheless, the boats pursued, and Stubb's was foremost. By great
exertion, Tashlego a last surceedad in planting one iron; but the
stricken whale, without at al sounding, stil continued his horizontal
‘tight, with added fleeiness, Such unintermitted strainings upon the
planted iron must sooner or later inevitably extractit. it became
imperative to tance the flying whale, or be content to tose fim. But to
haul the boat up to his flank was impossible, he swam so fast and
