‘This done, the carpenter received orders to have the leg completed that
night; and to provide ail the fitings for i, independent of those
pertaining to the distrusted one in use. Moreover, the ship's forge was
ordered to be hoisted out ofits temporary idleness in the hold; and,

to accelerate the affair, the blacksmith was commanded to praceed at
‘once to the forging of whatever iran contsivances might be needed.

‘CHAPTER 107. The Carpenter.

Seat thyseif suttanically among the moons of Saturn, and take high
abstracted man alone; and he seems a wonder, a grandeur, and a woe, But
‘rom the same point, take mankind in mass, and for the most part, they
‘seem a mob of unnecessary duplicates, both contemporary and hereditary
‘But most humble though he was, and far ftom furnishing an exampte of

the high, humane abstraction; the Pequod's carpenter was no dupticate:
hence, he now comes in person on this stage,

Like ail sea-going ship carpenters, and more especially those belonging
to whaling vessels, he was, to a certain oft-handed, practical extent,
alike experianced in numerous trades and callings collateral to his

‘own; the carpenter's pursuit being the ancient and outbranching trunk
ofall those numerous handicrafts which more or fess have to do with
wood as an auxiiary material. But, besides the application to him of

the generic remark above, this carpenter of the Pequod was singularly
‘ficient in those thousand nameless mechanical emergencies continually
Tecutting in a large ship, upon a three or four years’ voyage, In
‘unolilized and far-distant seas, For not to speak of his readiness in
osdinary duties:—repairing stove boats, sprung spars, reforming the
shape of clumsy-biaded oars, inserting bul’s eyes in the deck, or new
‘tee-nalls in the side planks, and other miscellaneous matters more
directly pertaining to his special business; he was moreover
unhesilatingly expestin all manner of conficting aptitudes, both

useful and capricious.

‘The one grand stage where he enacted ail his various paris eo manifold,
was his vice-bench; a tong rude ponderous table furnished with several
vices, of different sizes, and both of ron and of wood. At all times
except when whales were alongside, this bench was securely lashed
athwartships against the rear of the Try-works,

A.belaying pin is found too iarge to be easily inserted into its hole.
the carpenter claps itinto one of his ever-ready vices, and

straightway fles itemaller. A lost fand-bird of strange plumage

strays on board, and is made a captive: out of lean shaved rods of
fightavhale bone, and cross-beams of sperm whale ivory, the carpenter
‘makes 2 pagoda-fooking cage for it. An oarsman sprains his wrist the
carpenter concocis a soothing lotion. Stubb fonged for vermition stars
to be painted upon the biade of his every oar, sorewing each oar in his
‘big vice ofwood, the carpenter symmetrically suppties the
