But fortunately the special point here seek can be established upon
testimony entirely independent of my own. That pointis this: The Sperm
Whale is in some cases sufficiently powerful, knowing, and judiciously
‘malicious, as with direct aforethought to stave in, utterly destroy,

and sink atage ship: and what is more, the Spenm Whale _has_done it

First in the year 1820 the ship Essex, Captain Pollard, of Nantucket,
was cruising in the Pacific Ocean. One day she saw spouls, lowered her
boats, and gave chase to a shoal of sperm whales. Ere tong, several of
the whales were wounded: when, suddenly, a very large whale escaping
‘rom the boals, issued from the shoal, and bare directly down upon the
ship. Dashing his forehead against her hull, he so stove her in, that

in fags than “len minutes" she settled down and fell over. Nota

surviving plank of her has been seen since. Afie the severest

‘exposure, part ofthe crew reached the land in their boats. Being

selumed home at fast, Captain Pollard once more sailed for the Pacific

in command of another ship, but the gods shipwrecked him again upon
‘unknown rocks and breakers; for the secand time his ship was utterly
{ost, and forthwith forswearing the sea, he has never tempted it since.

At this day Captain Pollard is a resident of Nantucket. Ihave seen

‘Owen Chace, who was chief mate ofthe Essex at the time of the tragedy,
have read his plain and faithful narrative; Have conversed with his:
‘son; and al this within a few miles of the scene of the catastrophe.”

“The following are extracts from Chace’s narrative: “Every fact seemed
to warrant me in concluding that it was anything but chance which
directed his operations; he made two several attacks upan the ship, at

1a short interval between them, both of which, accarding to their
direetion, were calculated to do us the most injury, by heing made
ahead, and thereby combining the speed of the two objects for the
shock: fo effect which, the exact manceuvres which he made were
necessary. His aspect was most homible, and such as indicated
reseniment and fury. He came directly rom the shoal which we had just
before entered, and in which we had sinuck three of his companions, as
Iffired with revenge for helt sufferings." Again: “At all events, the

‘whole circumstances taken together, all happening before my own eyes,
and producing, at the time, impressions in my mind of decided,
calculating mischief, on the past of the whale (many of which
imapressions | cannot now recall), induce me to be satisfied that lam.
correct in my opinion.”

Here are his reflections some time ater quitting the ship, during @
black night in an open boat, when almost despairing of reaching any
‘hospitable shore, “The dark ocean and swelling waters were nothing: the
fears of being swatlowed up by some dreadiul tempest, or dashed upon
‘hidden rocks, with ail the other ordinary subjects of fearful

contemplation, seemed scarcely entitled to a moment's thought, he
dismal looking wreck, and _the hovvid aspect and revenge of the whale_.
wholly engrossed my reflections, until day again made its appearance”
