First comes white-horse, so called, which is obtained from the tapering

part of the fish, and also irom the thicker portions of his flukes. i

fs tough with congeated tendons—a wad of muscle—but sfll contains some
oll. After being severed from the whate, the white-horse is frst cut

into portable oblongs efe going to the mincer. They fonk much like

blocks of Berkshire marbte

Plum-pudding is the term bestowed upon certain Ragmentary parts of the
whale's flesh, hare and there adhering to the blanket of blubber, and
often participating to a considerable degree in its unetuousness. His

a most refreshing, convivial, beautif object to behold. As its name
imporls, itis of an exceedingly rich, mottled tnt, with a bestreaked

snowy and golden ground, dotted with spots of the deepest crimson and
purple. His plums of rubies, in pictures af citron. Spite of reason,

itis hard to keep yourself from eating it. | confess, that once F

siole behind the foremast to ty it It tasted something as t should

conceive a royal cutiet from the thigh of Louis fe Gros might have

tasted, supposing him to have been killed the frst day after the

venison season, and that particular venison season contemporary with an
‘unusually fine vintage of the vineyards of Champagne.

‘There ie another substance, and a very singular one, which turns up ia
the course of this business, but which I feel ito be very puzzling
adequately to describe. itis called slobgollion; an appaliation

‘original with the whalemen, and even so is the nature of the substance.
tis an ineffably cozy, stingy affair, most frequently found in the

‘tubs of sperm, after a prolonged squeezing, and subsequent decanting t
‘hold it to be the wendrously thin, ruptured membranes of the case,
coalescing.

‘Gurry, so catled, is a term properly belonging ta ight whatemen, but
sometimes incidentally used by the sperm fishermen. tt designates the
dark, glutinous substance which is scraped off the back of the
Greenland or ight whale, and much of which covers the decks of those
inferior souls who hunt that ignoble Leviathan,

Nipgers. Stictly this word Is net indigenous to the whale's
vocabulary. But as applied by whalemen, it becomes so. A whaleman's
sipperis a shor firm stip of tendinous stuff cut fom the tapering

part of Leviathan’s tai: it averages an inch in thickness, and for the
‘esi, is about the size ofthe iron part ofa hoe. Edgewise moved along
the oily deck, it operates like a leathern squiigee, and by nameless
biandishments, as of magic, allures along with it all impurities.

But to feam ail about these recandite matters, your best way is at
‘once to desoend into the blubber-room, and have & tong tatk with its
inmates. This place has previously been mentioned as the teceptacie for
the blanket pieces, when stript and hoisted from the whale. When the
proper time arrives for cutting up its contents, this aparmentis 2

‘scene of error to all tyros, especially by night. On one side, it by
