ofa tower jaw, tite the Sperm Whale’s. Nor in the Sperm Whale are
there any of thase blinds of bone: no huge lower lip; and scarcely
anything of tongue, Again, the Right Whate has two external
spout-holes, the Sperm Whale only ane,

Look your last, now, on these venerable hooded heads, while they yet
Sie together: for one will soon sink, unrecorded, in the sea; the other
will mot be very tong in following,

‘Can you caich the expression of the Sperm Whale's there? itis the same
he died with, only some ofthe ionger wrinkles in the forehead seem now
faded away. [think his broad brow to be full ofa prairie-like

placidity, bom of a speculative indifference as to death. But mark the
other head's expression. See that amazing lower tip, presced by
ocident against the vessel's side, so as firmly to embrace the jaw.

Does not this whole head seem to speak of an enormous practical
resolution in facing death? This Right Whale Hake to have been 2

Stoic; the Sperm Whale, a Platonian, who might have taken up Spinoza in
bis tatter years.

CHAPTER 76. The Battering Ram.

Ere quitting, for the nonce, the Sperm Whale's head, ! would have you,
as a sensibie physiologist, simply—partioutarly remark its front

‘aspect, in ail ts compacted collectedness. | would have you

investigate it now with the sole view of forming bo yourself some
unexaggeraied, intelligent estimate of whatever battering-ram power may
be lodged there. Here is a vilat point, for you must either

salisfactorily sete this matier with yourself, or for ever remain an

infidel as to one ofthe most apgaiting, but not the fess true events,
perhaps anywhere to be found in ail recorded history.

‘You observe that in the ordinary swimming position of the Sperm Whale,
the front of his head presents an almost wholly vertical plane to the

water, you observe that the lower part ofthat front slopes,

eonsiderably backwards, so as te furnish more ofa retreat for the tong
soeket which receives the boom-like lower jaw: you observe that the
‘mouth is entirely under the head, much in the same way, indeed, as
though your own mouth were entirely under your chin. Moreover you
observe that the whale has no external nose; and that what nose he
zhas—his spout hote—is on the top ofhis head: you observe that his eyes
and ears are at the sides of his head, nearly one third of his entire

length from the front. Wherefore, you must now have perceived that the
front of the Sperm Whaie's head is a dead, blind wal, without a single
‘organ or tender prominence of any sort whatsoever. Furthermore, you are
now to consider that only in the extreme, tower, backward sloping part
ofthe front of the head, is there the slightest vestige of bone; and

not til you get near twenty feat from the forehead do you come to the

{ull cranial development. So thal this whole enormous boneless mass is
