“We should mast him soon”

“aye, aye, sit” and siraightway Starbuck did Ahab's bidding, and once
more Ahab swung on high,

Awhole hour now passed: gotd-beaten out to ages. Tine itselfnow held
fong breaths with keen suspense. But al last, some three points off the
weather bow, Ahab descried the spaut again, and Instantly from the
three mast-heads three shrieks went up as ifthe tongues of fre had
voiced it

“Forehead to forehead | meet thee, this third time, Moby Dick! On deck.
therel_brace sharper up; crowd her into the wind's eye. He's too far

offto tower yet, Mr, Starbuck, The sails shake! Stand over that

‘helmsman with a top-maut! Go, go; he travets fast, and I must down. But
let me have one more good round look aloft here at the sea; there's

lime for that. An old, old sight, and yet somehow so young: aye, and

nat changed a wink since I first saw it, boy, rom the sand-hitis of
Nantucket! The same!—the samel—the same to Noah as to me. There's 2
‘soft shower to leeward. Such lovely leewardings! They must lead
somewhere—to something else than common tand, more patmy than the
alms. Leeward! the white whale goes that way, fook to windward, then
the better ifthe bitlerer quarter. But good bye, good bye, old

masthead! What's this?green? aye, tiny mosses in these warped cracks.
No such green weather stains on Ahab’s head! There's the difference now
between man's old age and matter's, But aye, old mast, we both grav old
together, sound in our huts, though, are we not, my ship? Aye, minusa
eg, that's ail. By heaven this dead wood has the better of my five

flesh every way. tcan't compare with it, and F've known some ships

made of dead trees outlast the lives of men made af the most vital

sluffof vital fathers. What's that he said? he should stil go before

‘me, my pilot; and yet tobe seen again? But where? Wil Hhave eyes at

the bottom of the sea. supposing I descend those endiess siairs? and

ail night ve been sailing from him, wherever he did sink to. Aye,

aye, like many more thou told'stdireful truth as touching thyself, O

Parsee; but, Ahab, there thy shot fell short. Good-bye, masi-head—keep

‘a good eye upon the whale, the while Fm gone. We'll aik to-morrow,

ay. to-night, when the white whale es down there, tied by head and
tail”

He gave the word; and siti gazing round him, was steadily towered
through the cloven biue air to the deck.

In due time the boals were lowered; but as standing in his shatlop's
stern, Ahab just hovered upon the point of the descent, he waved to the
mate,—who held one of the tackle-ropes on deck—and bade hirn pause.

Starbuck!”

“eur
