‘with the stubbornness of fe; he subterranean laugh died away; the
winds blew on; the sails filed out, the ship heaved and rolled as,

‘before. Ah, ye admonitions and warnings! why stay ye not when ye come?
‘But rather are ye predictions than wamings, ye shadows! Yet nol so

much predictions from without, as verifications of the foregoing things
within, For with fit external to constrain us, the ianermost

necessities in our being, these stil drive us on.

“The measure! the measure!” cried Ahab.

Receiving the brimming pewter, and turning to the harpooneers, he
‘ordered them to produce their weapons. Then ranging them befare him
‘near the capstan, with their harpoons in theic hands, while bis three
mates stood at his side with their lances, and the rest of the ship's
‘company formed a circle round the group; he stood for an Instant
searchingly eyeing every man of his crew. But those wild eyes met his,
as the bloodshot eyes of the praitie waives meet the eye of ther
jeader, ere he rushes on al their head in the trail ofthe bison, bul,

‘alas! onty fo fall into the hidden snare ofthe Indian,

“Drink and passf" he cried, handing the heavy charged flagon to the
nearest seaman. “The crew alone now drink. Round with it, ound! Short
draughts_iong swallows, men: 'tis hot as Satan's hoof. So, soit goes
sound excellently fl epiralizes in ye; forks out at the

serpent-snapping eye. Well done; almost drained. That way itwent, this
way it comes. Hand it me—here's a hollow! Men, ye seem the years; so.
brimming fife Is gulped and gone. Steward, refill

“Attend now, my braves. Fhave mustered ye all ound this capstan; and
ye mates, flank me with your lances: and ye harpooneers, stand there
with your irons: and ye, stout mariners, ring me in, that Imay in some

sort fevive a nobte cusiom of my fisherman fathers before me. O men,

‘you will yet see thatHal boy, come back? bad pennies come not sooner
Hand it me. Why, now, this pewter had run brimming again, wert aot

‘thou St. Vitus’ imp—away, thou ague!

“Advance. ye mates! Cross your tances full hefore me. Weil donef Let me
touch the axis.” So saying, with extended arm, he grasped the three

evel, radiating tances al their crossed centre; while so doing,

suddenly and nervously hitched them; meanwhile, glancing intently tom
Starbuck fo Stubb; from Stubb to Flask. H seemed as though, by some
‘nameless, interior volition, he would fain have shocked into them the
same fiery emotion acoumulated within the Leyden jar of his own
‘magnetic life. The three mates quailed before his strong, sustained,

‘and mystic aspect, Slubb and Flask looked sideways from him the honest,
eye of Starbuck fall downright

“In vain!” cried Ahab; “but, maybe, ‘is well. For did ye three but
‘once take the ful-forced shock, then mine own elecisic thing, _that_
had pethaps expired from out me. Perchance, too, it would have dropped
