who, to the amazement ofall hands, started back, paced the deck
rapidly two or three times, and then suddenly throwing down his rope,
said, "won't do it_tet him go—cut him down: d'ye hear?

"But as the junior mates were hurrying fa execute the order, a pale
‘man, with a bandaged head, arrested them—Ratiney the chief mate. Ever
sinos the blow, he had tain in his berth, but that morning, hearing the
‘urmuit on the deck, he had crept out, and thus far had waiched the

whole scene. Such was the siate of his mouth, that he could hardly

speak but mumbling something about _his_being witing and able to do
what the captain dared cot atlempt, he snatched the rope and advanced
to his pinioned foe.

~You are a coward! hissed the Lakeman,

“So Lam, but take that The mate was in the very act of striking,
when another hiss stayed his upiified arm. He paused. and then pausing
‘no more, made good his word, spite of Steetkil's threat, whatever that
might have been. The three mien were then cut down, aif hands were
fumed to, and, sullenty worked by the moody seamen, the iron pumps
Glanged as before,

“Just afler dark that day, when one watch had retired below, a clamor
was heard in the forecastie; and the two trembling traitors running up,
besieged the cabin door, saying they durst not consort with the crew.
Entreaties, cuffs, and kicks could not drive them back, s0 at their own
instance they were put down in the ship's run for salvation, Still, no

‘sign of mutiny reappeared ariong the fest. On the contrary. it scemed,
that mainty at Steetkit's instigation, they had resolved to maintain

the stictest peavefuiness, obey all orders to the fast, and, when the

ship reached port, desert herin a body. Autin order to insure the
speediest end to the voyage, they all agreed to another thing—namely,
ot to sing out for whales, in case any should be discovered. Far,

spite offer teak, and spite of all her other penis, the Town-Ho sbi
maintained her mast-heads, and her capiain was just as wiling to Jower
{or a fish that moment, as on the day his craft frst stuck the

cruising ground; and Radney the mate was quite as ready to change his,
best fora boat, and with fis bandaged mouth seek to gag in death the
vital jaw ofthe whale.

“But though the Lakeman had induced the seamen to adopt this sort of
passiveness in their conduct, he kept his own counsel (at feast til

ail was over} concerning his own proper and private revenge upon the
aan who had stung hint in the ventsicies of his heart. He was in Radney
the chief mate's watch; and as ifthe infatuated man sought to run more
than half way to meat his doom, after the scene at the rigging. he
insisted, against the express counsel ofthe caplain, upon resuming the
head of his watch at night. Upon this, and one or two other
circumstances, Steelkilt systematically built the pian offs revenge.
