fRoating in those tatitudes, where the Right Whale is often chased

Butitwas only the sound they made as they parted the brit which at
all reminded one of mowers. Seen from the mast-heads, especially when
they paused and were stationary for a white, their vast biack forms

looked more like ffeless masses of ook than anything else. And as in

the great hunting countries of India, the stranger at a distance will
sometimes pass on the plains recumbent elephants without knowing them
to be such, taking them for bare, blackened elevations of the soil,

even 80, often, with him, who for the first time beholds this species

ofthe teviathans of the Sea, And even when recognised at fast, their
Immense magnitude renders it very hard really to believe that such

bully masses of overgrowth can possibly be insfinet, in all parts, with

the same sort of ife that ves in a dog or a horse.

Indeed, in other respects, you can hardly regard any creatures afthe
deep with the same feelings that you do those of the shore. For though
some old naturalists have maintained that all ereatures of he fand are

of their kind tn the sea; and though taking a broad general view of the
thing, this may very well be; yet coming to specialties, where, for
example, does the ocean furnish any fish that In disposition answers to
the sagacious kindness ofthe dog? The accursed shark alone can in any
generic respect be said to bear comparative analogy to him,

But though, te fandsmen in general, the native Inhabitants of the seas
‘have ever been regarded with emotions unspeakably unsocial and
repelling: though we know the sea to be an everlasting terra incognita,

$0 that Columbus sailed over numberiess unknown worlds to discover his
‘one superficial western one; though, by vast odds, the most terific of

all mortal disasters have immemosiaily and indiscriminately befallen

tens and hundreds of thousands of those who have gone upon the waters;
though but a moment's consideration wil teach, that however baby man
may brag of is scienoe and ski, and however much, in a flattering

future, that science and skill may augment, yet for ever and for ever,

to the crack ofdoom, the sea wil insult and murder him, and pulverize

the statetiest,siffest tigate he can make; nevertheless, by the

continual repetition of these very impressions, man has iost that sense
ofthe full awfulness of the sea which aboriginally betongs to i.

“The frst boat we read of, floated on an acean, that with Portuguese
vengeance had whelmed a whole world without leaving so much as a widow,
‘That same ocean rolls now: that same ocean destroyed the wrecked ships
oftast year. Yea, foolish mortals, Noah's flood is not yet subsided,

two thinds of the fair world ityet cavers.

Wherein differ the sea and the land, that a miracle upon one is nota
miracte upon the other? Preternatural terrors rested upon the Hebrews,
when under the feet of Korah and his company the five ground opened and
swallowed thems up for ever, yet not a modem sun ever sets, butia
precisely the same manner the live sea swallows up ships and crews.
