{ike pushing him over, 30 as to change his position, for itwas almost
intolerable, it seemed so painfully and unnaturally constrained;
especially, as in all probability he had been siting so for upwards of
eight or ten hours, going too without his regular meats.

“Mrs. Hussey,” said f,"he's _alive_at ail events; so leave us, ifyou
please, and twill see to this strange affair myself”

‘Closing the door upon the landiady, t endeavored to prevail upon
‘Queequeg to take a chais; but in vain. These he sat; and ail he could
‘do—for all my polite arts and hlandishments—he would not move a peg,
‘nor say a single word, nor even look al me, nor notice my presence in
the slightest way.

wonder, thought f, if this can possibly be a part af his Ramadan; do
they fast on their hams that way in his native island. Ht must be so;

yes, it's part of his creed, Fsuppose; well, then, let him seat; he’

get up sooner or tater, no doubt. Htcan't last for ever, thank God,

and his Ramadan only comes once a year; and don't believe it's very
punctual then,

went down to supper. After siting a tong time listening to the tong
stories of some sailors who had just come from a plum-pudding voyage,
2s they called it (that fe, a short whaling-vayage in a schooner ar

brig, confined fo the novth of the fine, in the Atlantic Ocean only)

after listening to these plum-puddingers til nearly eleven o'clock, t

went up siairs fo go to bed, feeling quite sure by this time Queequeg
‘must certainly have brought his Ramadan to a termination, But no; there
‘be was just where thad left him; he had nat stirred an inch. Fegan

to grow vexed with him: it seemed so downright senseless and insane to
be sitting there all day and haif the night on his hams in a cold room,
holding a piece of wood on his head.

“For heaven's sake, Queequeg, getup and shake yourself, get up and
‘have some supper. You'll starve: you'l kill yourself, Queequeg.” But
‘nat a word did he reply.

Despairing of him, therefore, determined to go to bed and to sleep:
and no doubt, before a great while, he would follow me. But previous to
‘uming in, Ftook my heavy bearskin Jackel, and threw it over him, as

it promised to be a very cold night; and he had nothing but his,

ordinary round jacket on. For some time, do all ! would, could not

‘get into the faintest daze. thad blown out the candie; and the mere
thought of Queequeg—not four feet off_sitting there in that uneasy
position, stark alone in the cold and dark; this made me reafly
wretched, Think oft, sleeping all night in the same room with a wide
awake pagan on his hams in this dreary, unaccountable Ramadan!

But somehow ! dropped off at fast, and knew nothing more ti break of
‘day, when, looking over the bedside, there squatted Queequeg, as ifhe
