“But could not fasten”

“Didn't want to ry to: ain't one limb enough? What should | do without
this other arm? And I'm thinking Moby Dick doesn't bite so muich ashe
swallows.”

“Welt, then,” intercupted Bunger, “give him your feft arnt for bait to
‘get the right. Go you know, gentiemen’—very gravely and mathematically
‘bowing fa each Captain in succession—Do yau know, gentiemen, that the
digestive organs ofthe whale are so Inscrutably constructed by Divine
Providence, that itis quite impossibte for him to completely digest

aven a man’s arm? And he knows it too, So that what yau take for the
White Whale's matice is only his awkwardness. For he never means to
swatlow a single tim; he only thinks to tersly by feints. But

sometimes he is fike the old juggting fellow, formeriy a patient of

mine io Ceylon, that making believe swattow jack-knives, once upon &
time tet one drop Into inn in good earnest, and there it stayed fora
‘twelveronth or more; when I gave hina an emetic, and he heaved itup in
‘smrall tacks, d'ye see. No possible way for him to digest that

Jacke knife, and fully incorporate it into his general bodily system.

‘Yes, Captain Boomer, iT'you ate quick enough about it, and have a mind

to pawn one arm for the sake of the privilege of giving decent burial

tp the other, why in that case the arm is yours, onty fet the whale

have another chance at you shorty, that's ail”

 

 

*No, thank ye, Bunger,” said the Engtish Capiain, “he's welcome ta the
‘aera he has, since Hean't help i, and didn't know him then; but not to
anather one. No more White Whales for me; I've towered for him once,
‘and that has salisfied me. There would be great glory in kiling him, |
know that; and there is a ship-oad of precious sperm In him, but, hark
ye, he's best fet alone; don’t you think so, Capiain?”— glancing atthe
ivory leg

“He is. But he wit! si! be hunted, for ail that, Whats bestiet
alone, that accursed thing Is not always what least allures. He's all a
magnet! How Jong since thou saw'st him fast? Which way heading?”

“Bless my soul, and curse the fou! Rend’s,” cried Bunger, sloopingly
walking round Ahab, and fike a dog, strangely snufing, “his man’s
‘blood—bring the thermometer! at the boiling paintt_his pulse makes
these planks beat!—sit—taking a lancet from his pocket, and drawing
near to Ahab's arm.

“Avast” roared Ahab, dashing him against the bulwarks—*Man the boat?
Which way heading?”

“Good God!” cried the Engfish Captain, to whom the question was put
“What's the matter? He was heading east, | think —Is your Captain
crazy?” whispering Fedatian
