polished necklace of eadfish vertebra; and Hosea Hussey had his account
‘books bound in superior old shark-skin, There was a fishy Ravorto the
‘tk, too, which feould not at all account for, til one morning

‘happening to take a stroll atong the beach among some fishermen's
boats, f saw Hosea’s brindled cow feeding on fish remnants, and
‘marching along the sand with each footin a cod's decapitated head,
tooking very slip-shod, | assure ye.

‘Supper concluded, we received a lamp, and directions from Mrs. Hussey
‘concerning the nearest way fo bed, but, as Queequeg was about fo
precede me up the stairs, the tady reached forth her arm, and demanded
hig harpoon; she allowed no harpoon in her chambers. "Why not?” said f,
“every true whaleman sleeps with his harpeon—but why nol?” ‘Because
it's dangerous” says she. “Ever since young Stiggs coming from that
unfortot v7 ge of his, when he was gone four years and a half, with,

only three barrels of _jle_, was found dead in my first Roor back,

‘with hs harpoon in his side; ever since then tallow no boarders to

take sich dangerous weepons in theie rooms al night. So, Mr. Queequeg”
(for she had teamed his name}, “val just take this here iton, and

‘keep it for you til morning. But the chowder: clam or cod to-morrow

for breakfast, men?”

“Both,” says f,"and let's have a couple of smoked herring by way of
variety.”

CHAPTER 18, The Ship.

In bed we concocted our plans for the morrow. But to my surprise and no
small concem, Queequeg now gave me fo understand, that he had been
ditigenty consulting Yojo—the name of is black lite god—and Yojo
‘had told him two or three times over, and strongly insisted upon it
‘sveryway, thal instead af our going together among the whating-feet in
harbor, and in concert selecting our craft instead ofthis, tsay,

Yojo earnestly enjained that the selection af the ship should rest

wholly with me, inasmuch as Yojo purposed beftiending us; and, in order
to do so, had already pitched upon a vessel, which, iTieft to myset,

J Ishorael, should infalibly ight upon, for all the world as though

ithad turned out by chances; and in that vesset b must immediately ship
myself, for the present ireapestive of Quesqueg

have forgotten to mention that, a many things, Queequeg placed great
‘confidence in the excellence of Yojo's judgment and surprising forecast
of things, and cherished Yojo with considerable esteem, as a father
good sort of god, who pechaps meant well enough upon the whole, but in
all cases did not suoceed in his benevolent designs

Now, this pian of Queeques's, of rather Yojo’s, touching the selection
of our craft, did not ike that plan at all Hhad not a tittle
relied upon Queequeg’s sagacity fo point out the whaler best fitted to
