sending those gigantic moles into the daylight above. So deep did they
‘90; and go ancient, and corroded, and weedy the aspect of the lowermost
puncheons, that you almost looked next for some mouldy comner-stone
‘cask containing coins of Captain Noah, with copies of the posted
placards, vainly warning the infatuated ofd world from the flood.

Tieree after tierce, too, of water, and bread, and beef, and shooks af
staves, and iron bundles of hoops, were hoisted out, il at last the

plied decks were hard to get about, and the Hollow hull echoed under
foot as if you were treading over empty catacombs, and reeted and
soiled in the sea tke an ait-Feighted demiiohn. Top-heavy was the

ship asa dinneriess student with all Aristotle in his head. Well was

itthat the Typhoons did not visit them then.

Now, at this time itwas that my poor pagan companion, and fast
bosomrlend, Queequeg, was seized with a fever, which brought Nim nigh
to his endless end,

Be it said, that in this vocation of whaling, sinecures are unknown,
ignity and danger go hand in hand; til you get fo be Caplan, the
‘igher you tise the harder you toll. So with poor Queequeg, who, as
‘arpooneer, must not only face all the rage of he fiving whale, but—as
we have elsewhere seen—mount his dead back in a rolling sea; and
finally descend into the gloom of the hold, and bitterly sweating all

day in that sublerraneous confinement, resolutely manhandie the
clumsiest casks and see to their stowage. To be short, among whalemen,
the harpooneers are the holders, so called

Poor Queequeg! when the ship was about half disembowetled, you should
have stooped over the hatchway, and peered down upon him there; where,
stripped to his woollen drawers, the tatiooed savage was crawling about
amid that dampness and slime, ike a green spotted lizard at the bottom
ofa well, And a well, or an iee-house, it somehow proved to him, poor
pagan; where, sirange to say, for all the heat ofhis sweatings, he

caught a teribie chill which lapsed into a fever, and at last, ater

some days’ suffering, faid him in his hammock, close to the very sill

ofthe door ofdeath, How he wasted and wasted away in those few
Jong-lingering days, il there seemed but itte teft of him but his,

frame and tattooing. But as ail else in him thinned, and his

cheek-bones grew sharper, his eyes, nevertheless, seemed growing fuller
and fuller: hey became of a strange softness of lustre; and mildly but
deeply looked out at you there from his sickness, a wondrous testimony

to that immortal health in him which could not die, or be weakened. And
‘ike cireles on the water, which, as they grow fainter, expand; so his

eyes seemed rounding and rounding, lke the rings of Eternity. An awe
that cannot be named would steal over you as you sat by the side of

this waning savage, and saw as strange things in his face, as any

beheld who were bystanders when Zoroaster died. For whatever is truly
wondrous and fearful in man, never yet was put into words or books. And
the drawing near of Death, which alike fevels all, alike impresses all

with 2 fast revelation, which only an author from the dead could
