2 duil lantern, a space has been left clear for the workmen. They
‘generally go in paits,—a pike-and-gaffman and a spade-man. The
‘whafing-pike Is similar to a frigate’s boarding-weapon of the same
name. The galfis something tke a boat-hook. With his gaff, the

‘gaffman hooks on to a sheet of blubber, and strives to hold it from
slipping, as the ship pitches and turches about. Meanwhile, the
spade-man stands on the sheet itself, perpendicularly chopping Itinto.
the portable horse-pieces. This spade is sharp as hone can make it, the
spademan’s feet are shoetess; the thing he stands on will sometimes.
inesistibly slide away from him, ike a sledge. tThe cuts offone of

his own toes, or one ofhis assistants’, would you be very much
astonished? Toes are scaros among veteran blubber-room men,

CHAPTER 95. The Cassock,

Had you stepped on baard the Pequod at a certain junciure of this
‘post mortemizing of the whale; and had you strolled forward nigh the
windlass, pretty sure am t that you would have scanned with no small
curiosity a very strange, enigmatical object, which you would have seen
there, tying along fengthwise in the tee scuppers, Not the wondrous
‘ister in the whale's huge head; not the pradigy offs unhinged tower
Jaw, not the miracie of his symmetrical tall; none ofthese would so
surprise you, as haifa glimpse ofthat unaccountable cone,—longer than
2 Kentuckian is tall nigh a foot in diameter at the base, and

jettblack as Yojo, the ebony idol of Queequeg. And an idol, indeed, it

is or, rather, in old times, its tikeness was, Such an idat as that

found in the secret graves of Queen Maachatr in Judea: and for
worshipping which, King Asa, her san, did depose her, and destroyed the
‘dol, and burnt t for an abomination al the brook Kedron, as darkly

set forth in the t5th chapter ofthe First Book of Kings,

‘Look at the sailor, called the mincer, who now comes along, and
assisted by two allies, heavily backs the grandissimus, as the mariners
call it, and with bowed shoulders, staggers off with it as ithe were a
‘grenadiar carrying a dead comrade from the field, Extending it upon the
orecastie deck, he now proceeds cylindrically to remove its dark pett,
as.an Aftican hunter the peit ofa boa. This done he turns the pelt,
inside out, fike a pantainon feg: gives it a good stretching, so as

‘almost to double ils diameter: and at fast hangs it, well spread, in

the figging, to dry. Ere tong, itis taken down; when removing some
thiae fest oft, towards the pointed extremity, and then cutting two

silts for arm-holes at the other end, he lengthwise slips himself

bodily into it. The mincer now stands before you invested in the full
eanonicals of his calling. immemorial to all his order, this,

investiture alone will adequately protect him, while employed in the
‘peculiar functions of his office.

‘That office consisis in mincing the horse-pieoes of blubber for the
pols; an operation whieh is conducted at a curious wooden horee,
