‘hanging round him in the pantry, by his sudden fis ofthe palsy. Nor
{did the whetstone which the harpooneers carried in their pockets, for
theit ances and other weapons; and with which whetstanes, at dinner,
they would ostentatiously sharpen their knives; that grating sound did
not at ail tend to tranquitize poor Dough-Boy. How could he fosget
that in his Isiand days, Queequeg, for one, must certainty have Deen
‘guilty of some murderous, convivial indiscretions. Alas! Dough-Boy!
hard fares the white waiter who waits upon cannibals. Not a napkin
should he carry on his arm, but a buckler. in good time, though, to his,
great delight, he three salt-sea wartiors would rise and depart, to

‘ls credufous, fable-mangering ears, all their martial bones jingiing

in them at every step, lke Moorish scimetars in ecabbards.

But, though these barbarians dined in the cabin, and nominally fived
‘there; sil, being anything but sedentary in their habits, they were
scarcaly ever in itexcept at mealtimes, and just before sleeping-time,
when they passed through itto thee own pecuilar quarters,

inthis one matter, Ahab seemed no exception to most Amesican whale
captain, who, as a set, rather incline to the opinion that by rights

the ship's cabin belongs to them: and that itis by courtesy alone that
‘anybody else is, at any time, permitted there. So thal, in real truth,

the mates and harpooneers of the Pequod might mare properly be said to
‘nave lived out afthe eabin than in it. For when they did enter it, it

was something as a steet-door enters a house; tuning inwards for a
‘moment, only fo be turned out the next; and, as @ permanent thing,

residing in the open ait. Nor did they jose much hereby; In the cabin,

was no companionship; socially, Ahab was inaccessible. Though nominally
included in the census of Christendam, he was stil an alien ta it. He

lived in the world, as the last ofthe Grisly Bears lived in settled

Missouri. And as when Spring and Summer had departed, that wild Logan
ofthe woods, burying himselfin the hollow ofa tree, tived out the

winter there, sucking his own paws; so, in his inclement, howling old

age. Ahab’s soul, shut up in the caved inunk of his body, there fed

upon the sutlen paws of ts gloom!

CHAPTER 35, The Mast Head

twas during the more pleasant weather, that in due rotation with the
other seamen my frst masthead came found,

inmost American whatemen the mast-heads are manned almost
simultaneously with the vessel's leaving her port; even though she may
have fiftcen thousand miles, and more, to sail ere Teaching her proper
‘oruising ground. And if afte a three, four, or five years’ voyage she

{is drawing nigh hame with anything empty in her—say, an empty vial
‘even—then, her mast-heads are kept manned to the last; and not til her
skysall-poles sail n among the spires of the port, does she altogether
relinquish the hope of capturing one whale more
