‘is Daffed harpoonser were spilled out, and saited over by the three
fying Keats.

“Don'tbe afraid, my butter-boxes,” cried Stubb, casting a passing
glance upon them as he shot by, “ye be picked up presenty—ail
Tight—t saw some sharks astern—St. Bernard's dogs, you know —ratieve
distressed travatiers. Hurrah this is the way to sail now. Every keal

2 sunbeam! Murraht—Here we go like three fin kettles af the tall ofa
‘mad cougat! This puts me in mind of fastening to an etephantin 2

tibury on a pisin—makes the wheel-spokes fly, boys, when you fasten to
‘him that way, and there's danger of being pitched out to0, when you
stike 2 hil, Hurrah this is the way a fellow feeis when he's going

to Davy Jones—all a rush down an endless inclined plane! Hurrah! this
whale cartes the everiasting mail”

But the monster's run was a briefone. Giving a sudden gasp, he
tumuftuousty sounded. With a grating rush, the three fines few round
the toggerheads with such a force as to gouge deep grooves in them:
‘while so fearful were the harpooneers that this rapid sounding would
‘soon exhaust the tines, that using all their dexterous might, they
‘caught repeated smoking turns with the rope to hold on; til at
tast—owing to the pespendicular strain from the tead-tined chocks of
the boats, whence ihe three ropes went straight down into the biue—the
gunwales ofthe bows were almost even with the water, while the three
stems titted high in the air, And the whale soon ceasing to sound, for
some time they remained in that attitude, fearful of expending mare
tine, though the position was a ile ticklish, But though boats have
been taken down and ost in this way, yet itis this “holding on,” as

itis called: this hooking up by the sharp barbs of his tive Resh from

the back; this itis that ofen torments the Leviathan into soon rising
again to meet the sharp lance ofhis foes. Yet not to speak of the

pesil of the thing, itis to be doubled whether this course is always

the best, for itis but reasonable to presume, that the longer the
sticken whale stays under water, the more he is exhausted. Because,
‘owing fo the enormous surface of him—in a full grown sperm whale
something Jess than 2000 square feet_the pressure of the water is.
immense, We ail know what an astonishing almospheric weight we
ourselves stand up under, even here, above-ground, in the air; how
vast, then, the burden of a whale, bearing on fis back a column of two
‘bundred fathoms of ooeant it must at least equal the weight of fy
atmospheres, One whaleman has estimated it at the weight of twenty
Jine-of-battle ships, with al their guns, and stores, and men on

board,

As the three boats tay there on that gently raling sea, gazing down
into its eternal tue noon: and as not a single groan or ory of any

soft, nay, nol so much as a ripple oF a bubble came up from its depths;
what iandsman would have thought, that beneath ail that sitence and
placidity, the ulmost monster of the seas was writhing and wrenching in
agony! Not eight inches of perpendicular rope were visible at the bows.
