strangers to them—and dueiled them dead without winking: and yet, here
they sat at a social breakfast table—all of the same calting, ail of

kindred tastes—ooking round as sheepishly at each other as though they
had never been out of sight of eome sheepfold among the Green
Mountains. A curious sight; these bashful bears, these timid warrior
whalement

But as for Queequeg—why, Queequeg sat there among them—at the head of
the table, too, itso chanced: as cool as an icicle. To be sure |

cannot say much for his breeding. His greatest admirer could not have
cordially justified his bringing his harpoon into breakfast with him,

and using it there without ceremony: Feaching over the table with it,

to the imminent jeopardy of many heads, and grappling the beefsleaks
towards hint. But _thal_was certainty very cooly dane by him, and

every one knows that in most people's estimation, to do anything coolly

isto do it genteelty

‘We will not speak of all Queequeg's peculiarities here; how he eschewed
coffee and hot ras, and applied his undivided attention to

desfsleaks, done rare. Enough, that when breakfast was over he withdrew
Jike the rest into the public room, tighted his tomahawk-pipe, and was
siting there quietly digesting and smoking with his inseparabie hat

on, when tsallied out for a stot

‘CHAPTER 6, The Street,

Hihad been astonished at frst catohing a glimase of so outlandish
an individual as Queequeg circulating among the polite society of 9
civilized town, that astonishment soon depasted upon taking my frst
daylight stroll through the streets af New Bedford

In thoroughfares nigh the decks, any considerable seaport will
frequently offer to view the queerest looking nondescripts from foreign
paris. Even in Broadway and Chesinut streets, Mediteranean mariners
‘will sometimes jostle the affrighted ladies. Regent Steet is not

unknown to Lascars and Malays; and at Bombay. in the Apotio Green, tive
‘Yankees have often scared the natives. But New Bediord beats all Water
Street and Wapping. In these tast-mentioned haunis you see only

sailors; but in New Bedford, actual cannibals stand chatting at street
comers; savages outright, many of whom yet carry on their bones unholy
flesh, ttmakes a stranger stare.

But, besides the Feegeeans, Tongalobooarrs, Erromanggoans, Pannangians,
and Brighggians, and, besides the wild specimens of the whaling-craft

‘which unheeded reet about the streets, you will see other sights sill

‘mote curious, certainly more comical. There weekly arcive inthis town

sores of green Vermonters and New Hampshire men, all athirst for gain

and glory in the fishery. They are mostly young, of stalwart frames:

fellows who have felled forests, and now seek to drop the axe and
