“See nothing, sir”

“Tum up ail hands and make sail he travels faster than F thought
{for—the top-gatiant saits!—aye, they should have been kept on her all
ight. But no matter— tis but resting for the rush”

Here be it said, that this pertinacious pursuit of one particular
whale, continued through day into night, and through night into day, is

a thing by na means unprecedented in the South sea fishery. For such is
the wonderful ski, prescience of experience, and invincible

‘confidence acquired by some great natural geniuses among the Nantucket
commanders; that from the simple observation ofa whale when last
desctied, they wil, under certain given circumstances, pretty

accurately foretell both the diection in which he will contiaue to

‘swim for a time, white out of sight, as well as his probable rate of
progression duting that period. And, in these cases, somewhat as a
pilot, when about losing sight of a coast, whose general trending he

well knows, and which he desires shortly to retum to again, but at

some further point ike as this pilot stands by his compass, and takes

the precise bearing of the cape al present visible, in order the more.
certainly to hit aright the remote, unseen headiand, eventually to be
visited: so does the fisherman, at his compass, with the whale; for

after being chased, and dltigently marked, through several hours of
daylight, then, when night obscures the fish, the creature's future

wake though the darkness is almost as established to the sagacious
mind of the hunter, as the pilot's coast is to hire. So that to this

‘hunter's wondrous skil, he proverbial evanescence ofa thing writin
water, a wake, isto all desired purposes well nigh as reliable as the
steadfast tand. And as the mighty iron Leviathan of the modem railway
is so familiarly known in its every pace, that, with watches in their

‘hands, men time his rate as doctors that of a baby's pulse; and lightly
‘say of, the up train oF the down train will seach such or such a

‘spot, at such or such an hour; even so, almost, there are occasions
when these Nantucketers time that other Leviathan of the deep,
according to the observed humor of his speed: and say to themselves, so
many hours hence this whale will have gone two hundred miles, will have
about reached this or that degree of latitude or longitude. But to

render this acuteness af all successful in the end, the wind and the

sea must he the whaleman’s allies: for of what present avail to the
becalmed oF windbound mariner is the skill that assures him he is
exactly ninety-three leagues and a quarter from his port? Inferable

from these siatements, are many caitaterat subtle matters touching the
chase ofwhales,

The ship tore on; Jeaving such a furrow in the sea as when a
‘eannon-bail, missent, becames 2 plough-share and tums up the level
field,

“By salf and hemp” cried Stub, “but this swift motion ofthe deck
