‘hooked bifl at his head: with a scream, the black hawk darted away with
his prize

‘An eagle flew thrice sound Tarquin's head, removing his cap to replace
it, and thereupon Tanaquil, his wife, declared that Tarquin would be
king of Rome. But only by the repiacing of the cap was that omen
‘accounted good. Ahab’s hat was never restored; the wild hawk flew on
‘and on with i: far in advance of the prow: and at last disappeared:
‘while from the point of that disappearance, a minute black spot was
dinty discemed, falling from that vast height into the sea

CHAPTER 134. The Pequod Meets The Delight.

‘The intense Pequod sailed on; the rolling waves and days went by: the
Sife-buoy-coffn stl ightly swung; and another ship, most miserably
misnamed the Delight, was descried. As she drew nigh, all eyes were
‘fixed upon her broad beams, called shears, which, in some
‘whaling-ships, cross the quarter-deck al the height of eight or nine
feet: serving to carry the spare, unrigged, or disabled boats.

Upon the stranger's shears were beheld the shatiered, white ribs, and
some few splintered planks, of what had onoe been a whale-boal; but you
now saw through this wreck, as plainly as you see through the pecled,
half unhinged, and bleaching skeleton ofa horse.

“Hast seen the White Whale?”

Look? replied the hollow-cheeked captain from his taal; and with
his trumpet he pointed to the wreck.

“Hast killed him?”

“The harpoon is not yet forged that ever will do that,” answered the
‘other, sadly glancing upon a rounded hammock on the deck, whose
gathered sides some noiseless sailors were busy in sewing together.

“Not forged!” and snatching Perth's Jevelled iron from the crotch. Ahab
held it out, exctaiming—Look ye, Mantucketer; here in this hand Fhold
bis death! Tempered in blood, and tempered by lightning are these
‘barbs; and I swear to temper them triply in that hat place behind the
fin, where the White Whale most feels his accursed fifa”

“Then God keep thee, old man—see’st thou that'—pointing to the
samimack— bury but one of five stout men, who wese alive only
yesterday: butwere dead ere night. Only _that_one f bury: the rest
‘were buried before they died; you sail upon thei lamb” Then turning

to his crew—“Are ye ready there? place the plank then on the rail, and
{if the body; so, then—Oh! God"—advancing towards the hammock with
plified hands—"may the resurrection and the fife

 

 
