itis ptain, then, that phrenologically the head of his Leviathan, in
the creature's jiving intact state, is an entire delusion. As for his
‘rue brain, you can then see no indications ofit, nor feat any, The
whale, tke ail things that are mighty, wears 2 faise brow to the
common wor.

you unioad his skull ofits spermy heaps and then take a rear view
ofits rear end, which is the high end, you will be struck by its
resemblance to the human skull, hehetd in the same situation, and from.
the same point of view. indeed, place this reversed skull (scaled down

to the human magnitude} among a plate of men’s skulls, and you would
involuntarily confound it with them; and remarking the depressions on
one part ofits summit, in phrenological phrase you would say—This man
‘had no self-esteem, and no veneration, And ty those negations,
considered atong with the affirmative fact ofhis prodigious butk and
power, you can hest form fo yoursetf the truest, though not the most
‘exhilarating conception of what the most exalted potency is,

Buti fom the comparative dimensions of the whale’s proper brain, you
deem itineapable of being adequately chartad, then Ihave another idea
for you. f'you attentively regard almost any quadruped’s spine, you

will e struck with the resemblance of is vertebrae to a strung

necklace of dwarted skuls, al bearing sudimental resemblance to the
‘skull proper. itis @ German conceit, that the verlebrae are absolutely
undeveloped skulls. But the curious external resemblance, take it the
‘Germans were not the fSrst men to perceive. A foreign friend once
pointed it out to me, in the skeleton ofa foe he had slain, and with

the vertebre of which he was inlaying, in a sort of basso-relievo, the
beaked prow of his canoe. Now, teonsider that the phrenologists have
omitted an important thing ia not pushing their investigations from the
cerebellum through the spinal canal. For Ibelieve that much ofa man’s
character will be found betokened in his hackhone. | would rather fee!
‘your spine than your skuil, whoever you are. A thin joist of spine

never yet upheld a full and noble sou. {rejoice in my spine, asin

the fmm audacious staff of that fag which | fing haifout to the

world,

Apply this spinal branch of phrenotogy to the Sperm Whale. His cranial
cavity is continuous with the frst neck-vertebra: and in that vertebra

the bottom of the spinal canat will measure ten inches across, being
eight in height, and ofa triangular figure with the base downwards. As
itpasses through the remaining vertebrae the canat tapers in size, but
for a considerable distance remains of targe capacity. Now, of course,
this canal is filed with much the same strangely Rorous substance—the
spinal cord—as the brain; and directly communicates with the brain. And
what is stl more, for many feet after emerging from the brain's

‘cavity, the spinal cord remains of an undecreasing girth, almost equal

to that of the brain, Under ail these circumstances, would it be
unreasonabie to survey and map out the whale's spine phrenologically?
For, viewed in this tight, the wonderful comparative smaliness of his
