Soon ail the boats but Starbuck's were dronped; all the boat-sails
‘set_ail he paddies plying: with rippling ewifiness, shoating to
Seward; and Ahab heading the onset. A pale, death-gliramer it up
Fedaitah's sunken eyes; a hideous motion gnawed his mouth

Like noiseless nautilus shells, their light prows sped through the sea;
‘but only slowly they neared the foe. As they neared him, the ooean grew
sti] mote smooth; seemed drawing a carpet over its waves; seemed a
noon-meadow, so serenely it spread. Atlength the breathless hunter
‘came so nigh his seemingly unsuspecting prey. that his entire dazzling
hump was distinely visible, sliding along the sea as ifan ieolated

thing, and continually set in a revolving ring offinest, Reecy,

greenish foam. He saw the vast, Involved wrinkles ofthe slightly
projecting head beyond. Before i, far out on the soft Turkish-rugged
waters, went the glistening while shadow from his broad, rutky
forehead, a musical rippling playfully accompanying the shade: and
‘behind, the blue waters interchangeably flowed over into the moving
valley of his steady wake, and on either hand bright bubbles arose and
danced by his side. But these were broken again by the light toes of
‘nundreds of gay fowl softy feathering the sea, altemate with their

fitful fight; and tike to some flag-staff rising from the painted hull

of an argosy, the tall but shattered pole of a recent iance projected
‘fom the while whale's back, and at intervals one of the cloud of
sofloed fowls hovering, and to and fro skimming tike a canopy over

the fish, silently perched and rocked on this pole, the fong tail

feathers steaming like pennons.

Agentle joyousness—a mighty mildness of repose in swiftness, invested
the gliding whale. Not the white bull Jupiter ewimming away with
ravished Europa clinging to his graceful homs: his tovely, leering

‘eyes sideways intent upon the mald; with smooth bewitching Neetness,
ippling straight for the nuptial bower in Crete; not Jove, not that

great majesty Supreme! did surpass the glorified White Whale as he so
divinely swam.

‘On each soft side—coincident with the parted swell, that but once
Jeaving hirs, then Rowed so wide away—on each bright side. the whale
shed off enticings. No wonder there had been some among the hunters who
namelessly transported and allured by all this serenity, had ventured

to assail if; but had fatally found that quietude but the vesture of

fommadoes. Yet calm, enticing caim, oh, whale! thou glidest on, to ail

who for the first ime eye thee, no matter how many in that same way

thou may'st have bejugated and destroyed before.

And thus, through the serene tranquitites ofthe tropical sea, among
waves whose fhand-clappings were suspended by exceeding rapture, Moby
Dick moved on, stil withhoiding from sight the full terrors of his,

submerged trunk, entirety hiding the wrenched hideousness of his jaw.

But soon the fore part of him slowly tose from the water, for an
