But what most puzzled and confounded you was a fong, timber,
portentous, black mass of something hovering in the cente ofthe

picture over three blue, dim, perpendicular tines Roating in a

nameless yeast. A bogay, soggy. squitchy picture truly, enough to drive
nervous man distracted. Yetwas there a sort ofindafinite,

half-attained, unimaginable subtimity about it that fairly froze you to

it you involuntarily took an oath with yourself te find out what

that marvellous painting meant. Ever and anon a bsight, but, alas,
deceptive idea would dart you through —t's the Black Sea in a midnight
gale—tt's the unnatural combat ofthe four primal elements —t's a
blasted heath I's a Hyperborean winter scene —If's the breaking-up of
the leebound stream of Time. But at last all these fancies yielded to

that one portentous something in the picture's midst._Thal_once found
out, and ail the rest were plain. But stop; does it not beara faint
resemblance to a gigantic fish? even the great feviathan himself?

In fact, the artist's design seemed this: a final theory of my own,
partly based upon the aggregated opinions of many aged persons with
whom conversed upan the subject. The picture represents a Cape-Homer
{in a great hurricane; the half foundered ship weltering there with its

{hree dismantled masts alone visible; and an exasperated whale,
pusposing to spring clean over the craft isin the enormous act of

impating himseif upon the three mast-heads.

‘The opposite watt of this entry was hung all over with a heathenish
array of monstrous clubs and spears. Some were thickly set with

glitering teeth resembling ivory saws; others were tufted with knots

‘of human hair, and one was sickle-shaped, with a vast handle sweeping

round iike the segment made in the new-mawn grass by a long-armed

‘mower. You shuddered as you gazed, and wondered what monstrous cannibal
and savage could ever have gone a death-harvesting with such a hacking,
horrifying implement, Mixed with these were rusty old whaling tances

and harpoons all broken and deformed, Some were storied weapons. With
this ones tong Janos, now wildy elbowed, fify years ago did Nathan

Swain kill feen whales between a sunrise and a sunset. And that,
‘parpoon—so like @ corksorew now—was flung in Javan seas, and run away
with by a whale, years afterwards siain off the Cape of Blanco. The

original iron entered nigh the tail, and. fke a restless needle

sojourning in the body ofa man, travelled full forty feet, and at last

was found imbedded in the humo.

‘Crossing this dusky entry, and on through yon low-arched way—cut
through what in old times rust have been a great central chimney with
‘replaces all round—you enter the public room, A stil duskier place

i this, with such fow ponderous beams above, and such old wrinkled
planks beneath, that you would almost fancy you trad same old crat's
cockpits, especially of such a howling night, when this comer-anchared
old ark rocked so furiously. On one side stood a long. iow, sheifike
table covered with cracked glass cases, filed with dusty rarities
gathered from this wide world's remotest nooks. Projecting fram the
