“For three hundred and sixty miles, gentlemen, through the entire
breadth ofthe state af New York, through numesous populaus cities and
‘most thriving villages; through jong, dismal, uninhabited swamps, and
affluent, cultivated fRlelds, untivatted for fertility: by biliard-room

and bar-room through the holy-oF holles of great forests; on Roman
‘arches over Indian rivers; through sun and shade; by happy hearts oF
broken: through ail the wide contrasting scenery of those noble Mohawk
counties; and especially, by rows of snow-white chapels, whose spires
sland almost fike milestones, flows one continual stream of Venelianly
corrupt and offen tawless life. There's your true Ashantee, gentlemen:
there how! your pagans; where you ever find them. next door to you.
under the fong-flung shadow, and the snug patronising lee of churches.
For by some curious faiaity. as its offen noted of your metropolitan,
‘freebooters that they ever encamp around the halts of justice, so
sinners, gentlemen, most abound in holiest vicinties.

“is that a friar passing?’ said Dan Pedro, looking downwards into the
crowded piazza, with humorous concern,

“Weil for our narthern fiend, Dame Isabella's Inquisition wanes in
Lima,’ faughed Don Sebastian. ‘Proceed, Senor.

“A moment! Pardont' cried another of the company. ‘in the name of a
us Limeese, | but desire fo express to you, sit sailor, that we have by

‘no means overlooked your detieacy in not substituting present Lima for
distant Venios in your corrupt comparison. Ohi do net baw and fook
surprised: you know the proverb afl along this coast—“Cortupt as Lima.”
but bears out your saying, too; churches more plentiful than
bittiard-tables, and for ever open—and “Corupt as Lima.” $6, too,
Venice: thave been there: he holy city ofthe blessed evangelist, St
Mark!—St. Dominic, purge it! Your cup! Thanks: here b efi, now, you
pour out again,

“Freely depicted in his own vocation, gentiemen, the Canatier would
‘make a fine dramatic hero, so abundantly and picturesquely wicked is
he. Like Mark Antony, for days and days along his green-turfed, flowery
Nile, he indotentty floats, openty toying with his red-cheekad

‘Cleopatra, ripening his apricot thigh upon the sunny deck. But ashore,

ail this effeminacy is dashed. The brigandish guise which the Canailer
so proudly sports; his stouched and gaily-ribboned hat betoken his
grand fealures. A terror to the smiling innocence af the villages

through which he floats; his swart visage and bold swagger are not
unahunned in cities. Once 2 vagabond on his own canal, thave received
‘good tums from one ofthese Canallers: thank him hearty, would

fain be nat ungrateful; but itis offen one of the prime redeeming

qualities of your man of viotenes, that at times he has as sliffan sem

to back a poor stranger in a strait, as to plunder a wealthy one. In

sum, gentlemen, what the witdness ofthis canal ile is, is

‘emphatically evinced by this; that our wild whale-fishery contains so

many ofits most finished graduates, and that scarce any sace af
