nature in which there lurked no civilized hypocrisies and bland
deceits. Wild he was; a very sight of sights to see, yet Fegan to

‘eel myself mysteriously drawn towards him. And those same things that
would have repatied most others, they were the very magnets that thus
drew me. Fil ry 2 pagan friend, thought since Christian kindness

‘has proved but hollow courtesy. I drew my bench near him, and made some
‘enaly signs and hints, doing my best to talk with him meanwhile, At

first he litle noticed these advances: but presently, upon my

‘referring to his fast night's hospitailties, he made out fo ask me

whether we were again to be bedfellows. Hold him yes; whereat

thought he looked pleased, perhaps a lite complimented.

We then turned over the book together, and | endeavored to explain to
‘him the purpose ofthe printing, and the meaning of the few pictures
‘that were in it. Thus | soon engaged his interest, and from that we

went to jabbering the best we could about the various outer sights to
‘be seen in this famous town. Soon | proposed a social smoke, and,
producing his pouch and tomahawk, he quietly offered me a pul. And
then we sal exchanging pulls from that wid pipe of his, and keeping it
regulary passing between us,

there yet urked any ice of indifference towards me in the Pagan's
breast, this pleasant, genial smoke we had, soon thawed it out, and

‘eft us oronies. He seemed to take to me quite as naturally and
unbiddenty as {to him: and when our smoke was over, he pressed his
forehead against mine, clasped me round the waist, and said that
henceforth we were married; meaning, in his county's phrase, that we
‘were bosom fiends: he would gladly die for me, need should be. In a
countryman, this sudden flame of friendship would have seemed far too
premature, a thing fo be much distrusted; but in this simple savage
those old rules would not apply.

Afier supper, and another sacial chat and smoke, we went to our som
together. He made me a present of his embaimed head: took out his
‘enormous tobacco wallet, and groping under the tobacco, drew out some
thirly dotlars in sliver; then spreading them on the table, and
mechanically dividing them into hwo equat portions, pushed one of them
towards me, and said itwas mine. !was going to remonstrate; but he
silenced me by pouring them into my towsers’ pockets. et them stay.
He then went about his evening prayers, took out his idol, and removed
the paper freboard. By certain signs and symptoms, Fthought he seemed
anxious for me to join him; but well knowing what was to follow, t
deliberated a moment whether, in case he invited me, }would comply or
otherwise

Iwasa good Christian; bom and bred in the bosom ofthe infalible
Presbyterian Church, How then could Funite with this witd Idolator In
worshipping his piece of wood? But what is worship? thought |. Do you
suppose now, Ishmael, thal the magnanimous God of heaven and
earth—pagans and all inctuded—can possibly he jealous of an
