Nor, perhaps, wit! it fall to be eventually perceived, that behind
those forms and usages, as it were, he sometimes masked himself,
incidentally making use of them for other and more private ends than
they were legitimately intended to subserve. That certain sullanism of
‘his brain, which had otherwise in a good degree remained unmanifested:
through those forms that same suitantsm became incamnate in an
imesistible dictatorship. For be a man's intellectual superiority what
‘wil, tcan never assume the practical, available supremacy over

‘other men, without the aid of some sort af externat aris and
entrenchments, always, in themselves, more or less paitry and base,
‘This itis, hat for ever keeps God's true princes of the Empire from.

the world's hustings; and leaves the highest honors that this air ean

ave, to those men who become famous more through their infinite
inferiority to the choice hidden handful ofthe Divine Inert, than

‘through their undoubted superionty over the dead level ofthe mass.
Such large virtue lurks in these smail things when extreme political
superstitions invest them, that in some royal instances even to idiot
imbecttty they have imparted potency. But when, as in the case of
Nicholas the Czar, the ringed crown of geographical empire encireles an
imperial brain; then, the plebeian herds crouch abased before the
remendous centralization, Nor, will the tragic dramatist who would
‘depict mortal indomitableness in its fullest eweep and direct owing,

ever forget a hint, incidentally so important in his art, as the one.

‘now alluded to.

But Ahab, my Captain, stil moves before me in all his Nantucket
grieiness and shagginess; and in this episode touching Empesors and
Kings, [ must not conceal that Fhave only to do with a poor old
whale-hunter like him; and, therefore, all outward majestical trappings
and housings are denied me. Oh, Ahab! what shall be grand in thee, it
‘must needs be plucked af from the skies, and dived for in the deep, and
‘featured in the unbodied air!

CHAPTER 34, The Cabin-Tabie.

tis noon; and Dough-Boy, the steward, thrusting his pate
Joaf-of-bread face from the cabin-scutte, announces dinner to his tord
and master, who, siting in the Jee quarter-boat, has just been taking

‘an observation ofthe sun; and is now mutely reckoning the latitude on
the smooth, medalion-shaped tabiel, reserved for that daily purpose on
the upper part of his ivory teg. From his complete inattention to the
tidings, you would think that moody Ahab had not heard his menial. But
presently, catching hold of the mizen shrouds, he swings himself to the
‘deck, and in an even, unexhilarated voice, saying, “Dinner, Mr.
Starbuck, disappears into the cabin,

When the fast echo of his sultan's step has died away. and Starbuck,
the first Emr, has every reason to suppose that he is seated, then
