tose oneseifin such inhuman solitudes. Much the same is itwith the
backwoodsman ofthe West, who with comparative indifference views an
unbounded prairie sheeted with driven snow, no shadow of ree oF twig

to break the fixed trance of whiteness. Not so the sailor, beholding

the scenery of the Antarctic seas; where at times, by some infernal

‘wick of egerdemiain in the powers of fost and air, he, shivering and

half shipwrecked, instead of rainbows speaking Hope and solace to his
misery, views what seems a boundless churchyard grinning upon him with
{is lean ioe monuments and splintered crosses.

‘But thou sayest, methinks that white Jead chapter about whiteness is
but a white flag hung out from a craven sout, hou surrenderest to 3
hypo, Ishewael

‘Tell me, why this sttong young col, foaled in some peaceful valley of
‘Vermont, far removed fram ail beasts of prey—why is itthat upon the
sunniest day, iTyou but shake a fresh buffalo robe behind him, so that
he cannot even see it, but only smells its wild animal muskiness—why
will he star, snort, and with bursting eyes paw the ground in

phrensies of affright? There is no remembrance in him of any gorings of
wild creatures in bis green northem home, so that the strange
‘muskiness he smells cannot recall to him anything associated with the
‘experience of former peris; for what knows he, this New England colt,
ofthe black bisons of distant Oregon?

No: but here thou beholdest even in a dumb brute, the instinet of the
knowledge ofthe demonism in the world, Though thousands of miles from
Oregon, sill when he smetts thal savage musk, the rending, goring

bison herds are as present as to the deserted wild foal ofthe

prairies, which this instant they may be trampting into dust

‘Thus, then, the muffed rollings of a milky sea; the bleak rustiings of
the festooned frosts of mountains; the desolate shifings ofthe
‘windrowed snows of prairies, al these. o Ishmael, are as the shaking
ofthat buffalo rabe fo the frightened caith

‘Though neither knows where te the nameless things of which the mystic
sign gives forth such hints; yet with me, as with the colt, somewhere
those things must exist. Though in many ofits aspects this visible

world seems formed in tove, the invisible spheres were formed in

fight

But not yet have we solved the incantation of this whiteness, and
learned why it sppeals with such power to the soul; and more strange
and far more portentous—wy, as we have seen, itis at once the most
‘meaning symbol of spiritual things, nay, the very veil of the

Christian's Deity, and yet should be as itis, he intensifying agent

in things the most appaiting to mankind,

Isit that by its indefiniteness it shadows forth the heartless voids
