by some enchanter’s wand, the sleepy ship and every sleeper in itall
at once started into wakefulness; and more than a score of voivgs from
al parts of the vessel, simultaneously with the three notes from

lof, shouted forth the accustomed cry, as the great fish slowly and
regularly spouted the sparkling brine into the air.

“Clear away the boas! Luff cried Ahab. And obeying his own order, he
dashed the heim down befare the helmsman could Randle the spokes.

‘The sudden exclamations of the crew must have alarmed the whale: and
are the boats were down, majestically tuning, he swam away to the
Jeeward, but with such a steady tranquility, and making so few ripaies

as he swam, that thinking after ail he might not as yet be alarmed,

Ahab gave orders that not an oar should he used, and no man must speak
butin whispers, So seated like Ontario Indians on the gunwales ofthe
boats, we swiftly but silently paddled along; the catm not admitting of

the noiseless sails being set. Presently, as we thus glided in chase,

the monster perpendicularly Mtted his tail forty fest into the air,

and then sank out of sight fke a tower swallowed up.

“There go flukes? was the ary, an announcement immediately followed by
‘Stubb's producing his match and igniting his pipe, for now a respite

was granted, After the full interval of his sounding had elapsed, the

whale rose again, and being now in advance of the smoker's boat, and
much nearer to it than to any of he others, Stubb counted upon the

honor ofthe capture. ftwas obvious, now, that the whale had at length
become aware ofhis pursuers. All silence of caullousness was therefore
no fonger of use. Paddles were dropped, and oars came loudly into play.
‘And stil puffing at his pipe, Stubb cheered on his crew to the

assautt

‘Yes, a mighty change had come over the fish. Ail alive to his jeopardy,
‘he was going “head out’ tat part obliquely projecting from the mad
yeast which he brewed."

“Hwill be seen in some other place of what a very light substance the
entire interior ofthe sperm whate's enormous head consists. Though
apparently the most massive, itis by far the most buoyant part about
fnim. So that with ease he elevates itin the air, and invariably does

so when going at his utmost speed. Besides, such is the breadth of the
‘upper part of the front of his head, and such the tapering cutwater
formation ofthe lower par, that by obliquely elevating his head, he
thereby may be said to transform himself from a biuf-bowed sluggish
gailiot into a sharppoinied New York pilat-boat

“Start her, start her, my men! Don't hurry yourselves; take plenty of
‘ime—bul start Her, start her fike thunder-claps, that's ail” cried

Stubb, spluttering out the smoke as he spoke. “Start her, now: give ‘em
the tong and strong stroke, Tashtego. Start her, Tash, my boy—start
her, al but keep coo!, keep coo!cucumbers is the word—easy,
