CHAPTER 142, The Blacksrnith

Avaiting himself of the mild, summer-cool weather that now reigned In
these latitudes, and in preparation for the peculiarly active pursuits,

shortly to be anticipated, Perth, ihe begrimed, blistered old

blacksmith, had not removed his portable forge to the hold again, after
concluding his contributory work for Ahab’s Jeg, but sti selained it

on deck, fast fashed to singbolts by the foremast; being now almost
incessantly invoked by the headsmen, and harpeangers, and bowsmen to do
some ite Job for them, altering, or repairing, ot new shaping their

various weapons and boat fumiture, Often he would be surrounded by an
eager citcle, all waiting to be served; holding boat-spades,

pite-heads, harpoons, and lances, and jealously watching his every

sooty movement, as he toed. Nevertheless, this olf man’s was a

patient harimer wielded by a patient arm. No murmur, no Impatience, no.
atulance did come from him. Silent, slow, and solemn; bowing over

siit further his chronically broken back, he tolled away, as iftoil

‘were iife self, and the heavy beating of his hammer the heavy beating

ofhis heart, And so itwas—Most miserabiet

A pecullar watk in this old man, a certain slight but painful appearing
‘yawing in his gait, had at an early period of the voyage excited the
‘curiosity of the mariners. And to the importunity of their persisted
questionings he had finally given in; and so it came to pass that every
‘one now knew the shameful story offs wretched fate.

Belated, and not innocently, one bitter winter's midnight, on the road
sunning between two countly towns, the blacksmith haif stupidly fett

the deadly numbness stealing over him, and sought refuge in a tearing,
dilapidated bam. The issue was, the loss ofthe extremities of both

‘eet. Out ofthis revelation, part by part at fast came out the four

acts of the gladness, and the one long, and as yet uncatastrophied

Sith act of the grief of his ife’s drama,

He was an old man, who, at the age of nearly sixty, had posiponedly
‘encountered that thing in sorrow’s technicals called ruin. He had been

an artisan of famed excellence, and with plenty to do; owned a house
‘and garden; embraced a youth, daughter-tike, loving wife, and three
blithe, ruddy children; every Sunday went to a cheerfuliooking church,
planted in a grove. But one night, under cover of darkness, and further
‘concealed in a most cunning disguisement, a desperate burglar slid into
‘his happy home, and robbed them ail of everything. And darker yet to

tel, the blacksmith himself did ignorantly conduct this burgiar into|

his family's heart. twas the Bottle Conjuror! Upon the opening of

that fatal cork, forth flew the fiend, and shrivetied up his home, Now,

for prudent, most wise, and economic reasons, the blacksmith's shop was
in the basement of his dwelling, but wity a separate entrance to it; so

that always had the young and foving healthy wife fistened with no
unhappy nervousness, but with vigorous pleasure, to the stout ringing
