“There he goes now; io him nothing's happened: but to me, the skewer
seems loosening out of the middie of the world. Haut in, haul in,
Tahitian! These tines sun whole, and whirling out: come in broken, and
dragging slow. Ha, Pip? come to help: eh, Pip?”

“Pip? whom call ye Pip? Pip jumped from the whale-boat. Fip's missing
Let's see now ifye haven't ished him up here, fisherman. Itdrags

‘ard; I quess he's holding on. Jerk him, Tahitil Jerk him off; we haul

in no cowards here, Ho! there's his arm just breaking water. A hatchet!
_ahaichet! cut It off_we haut in no cowards here. Captain Ahab sir,

‘sit here's Pip, trying to get on board again”

*Peace, thou crazy toon,” “ied the Manxman, seizing him by the arm,
“Away from the quarter-deckl”

“The greater idiot ever seotds the lesser.” muttered Ahab, advancing.
“Hands off rom that holiness! Where sayest thou Pip was, boy?

“Astemn there, sit, stem! Lot oF

“And who art thou, boy? see not my reflection in the vacant upits of
thy eyes. Oh God! that man should be a thing for immortal sou's to
sleve through! Who art thou, boy?”

“Bell-boy. sir ship’s-orier, ding, dong, ding! Pip! Pip! Pip! One
hundred pounds of clay reward for Pip: five feet high—looks.
‘sowardly—quickest known by that! Ding, dong, ding! Who's seen Pip the
eoward?”

“There can be no hearts above the snow-line. Oh, ye frozen heavens!
took down here. Ye did beget this fuckiess child, and have abandoned
hin, ye creative libertines. Here, boy: Ahab's cabin shall be Pip's

ome henceforth, while Ahab tives, Thou touchest my inmost centre, boy:
thou art tied to me by cords woven of my heartstrings. Come, let's
down”

“What's this? here's velvet shark-skin,"intenity gazing at Ahab's:
‘hand, and feeting lt.“Ah, now, had poor Pip but felt so kind a thing

as this, perhaps he had ne'er been lost! This seems to me, sit, as. a
man-rope: something thal weak souls may hold by. Oh, sit jet ald Perth
now come and rivet these two hands together, the black one with the
white, for Hill not et this go.”

“Oh, boy, ner will thee, unless } should thereby drag thee te worse
farrors than are here. Come, then, to my cabin. Lof ys believers in
‘gods aif goodness, and in man ail il, 1o you! see the omniscient gods
Obtivious of suffering man; and man, though idiotic, and knowing not
what he does, yet full ofthe sweet things ofjove and gratitude. Come!
Heel prouder ieading thee by thy black hand, than though t grasped an
Emperor's
