the more certain accomplishment of that monomaniac thought of his sou!

Now, to any one not fully acquainted with the ways of the feviathans,
itmight seem an absurdly hopeless task thus to seek out one solitary
creature in the unhooped oceans of this planet. But not so did it seem
to Ahab, who knew the sets of ail ides and currents, and thereby
calcuiating the dritings of the sperm whale’s food, and, also, calling
to mind the regular, asceriained seasons for hunting him in particular
lafitudes; could arrive at reasonable surmises, almost approaching to
cefiainties, concerning the timotiest day to be upon this or that
‘round in Search of his prey.

So assured, Indeed, Is the fact concerning the petiodicalness of the
‘sperm whale’s resorting fo given waters, that many hunters believe
‘hal, could he be closely observed and studied throughout the word:
were the logs for one voyage of the entire whale feet carefully
collated, then the migrations of the sperm whale would he found to
correspond in invatiabitly to those ofthe hesring-shoals or the

flights of swatiows. On this hint, attempis have Deen made to constuct,
elaborate migratory charts ofthe sperm whale.”

‘Since the above was written, the statement is happily borne out by
an officia circular, issued by Lieutenant Maury, ofthe National
‘Observatory, Washington, April 16th, $851. By that circular, it

appears thal precisely such a chart is in course of completion; and
portions ofit are presented in the circular. “This chart divides the

‘ocean into distrcis of five degrees of latitude by five degrees of
Tongitude; perpendicularly through each of which districts are twelve
‘eolumne for the twelve months; and horizontally through each of whieh
isticts are three fines; ane to show the number of days that have
been spent in each month in every district, and the two others to

show the number of days in which whales, sperm or right, have been,

Besides, when making a passage from one feeding-ground to another, the
sperm whales, guided by some infatibie instinct say, rather, secret
intettigence from the Deity—mostly swim in _veins_, as they are called.
‘continuing their way along a given ocean-tine with such undeviating
exactitude, that no ship ever saited her course, by any chart, with one
tithe of such marvetfous precision. Though, in these cases, the

direotion taken by any one whale be straight as a surveyor's paral,

‘and though the line of advance be strictly canfined to its own
unavoidable, straight wake, yet the arbitrary _vein_in which at these
times he is said to swim, generally embraces some few miles in width
{more or tess, as the vein is presumed to expand or contract), but

never exceeds the visual sweep from the whale-ship's mast heads, when
