stockccompanies and nations; knaves, fools, and murderers there may be:
‘men may have mean and meagre faces; but man, in the ideal, is so nobie
and so sparkling, such a grand and glowing creature, that over any
ignomminious blemish in him all hie fellows should run to throw their
costliest mbes, That immaculate manliness we feel within ourselves, so
far within us, that remains intact though ail the outer character

seem gone; bleeds with keenest anguish at the undraped speciacie of a
valor-ruined man. Nor can piety itself, at such a shameful sight,
completely siife her upbraidings against the permiting stars. But

this august dignity treat of, is not the dignity of kings and robes,

ut that abounding dignity which has no robed investiture. Thou shalt
see it shining in the arm that wields a pick or drives a spike: that
demooralic dignity which, on all hands, radiates without end from God,
Himself The great God absolute! The centre and circumference of all
democracy! His omnipresence, our divine equality!

1, then, to meanest mariners, snd renegades and castaways, ! shall
heteafier ascribe high qualities, though dark, weave round them tragic
graces; ifeven the most mournful, perchance the most abased, among
them ail, shall at times iif himself io the exatted mounts; iffshail

touch that workman's arm with some ethereal light: if} shail spread a
rainbow over his disastrous set of sun; then against all mortal cries

bear me out init, thou just Spirit of Equality, which hast spread one

royal mantie of humanity over ail my kind! Bear me out init, how

‘great democratic God! who didst not refuse to the swart convict,

‘Bunyan, the pale, poetic pearl Thou who didst clothe with doubly
hammered leaves of finest gold, the stumped and paupered arm of old
‘Cervantes; Thou who didst pick up Andrew Jackson from the pebbles; who
didst hurl him upon a war-horse; who didst thunder him higher than a
throne! Thou who, in all Thy mighty. earthly marchings, ever cullest

‘Try selectest champions from the kingly commons; bear me outa it, ©
God!

CHAPTER 27. Knights and Squires.

Stubb was the second mate. He was a native of Cape Cod; and hence,
according to local usage, was called a Cape-Cod-man. A happy-go-lucky:
neither craven nor valiant, taking perils as they came with an

indifferent air; and while engaged in the most imminent crisis ofthe
‘chase, tolling away, calm and collected as a journeyman joiner engaged
{or the year. Good-humored, easy, and caretess, he presided over his
whale-boat as ifthe most deadly encounter were but a dinner, and his,
‘crew all invited quests. He was as particular about the comforiable
arrangement of his part of the boat, as an old stage-driveris about

the snugness of his box. When cloge to the whale, in the very

death-tock of the fight, he handled his unpitying tance coolly and

oft handedly, as a whistling tinker his hammer. He would hum over his
id rigadig tunes while flank and flank with the most exasperated
‘monster. Long usage had, for this Stubb, converted the jaws of death
