planted endwise against the bulwarks, and with a capacious tub beneath
it, into which the minced pieces drap, fast as the sheets from a rapt
‘orator's desk, Arrayed In decent black; opcupying @ conspicuous pulpit;
intent on bible leaves; what a candidate for an archbishapric, what 2

fad for a Pope were this mincert*

“Bible teaves! Bible leaves! This is the invariable cry from the mates
to the mincer. Henjoins him to be careful, and cut his work into as.
thin slices as possible, inasmuch as by so doing the business of
boiling out the ol is much accelerated, and its quantity considerably
increased, besides perhaps improving itn quality.

CHAPTER 98, The Try-Works,

Besides her hoisted boals, an American whaler is outwardly
distinguished by her ty-works. She presents the curious anomaly of the
‘most solid masonry joining with oak and hemp in constituting the
completed ship. itis as if from the open field a brick-kiln ware
transported to her ptanks.

‘The try-works are planted between the foremast and mainmast, the most
roomy partof he deck. The tiribers beneath are of a peculiar strength,
filed to sustain the weight of an aimost solld mase of rick and

mortar, some ten feet by eight square, and five in height. The

foundation does not penetiate the deck, but the masonry is frmly
secured to the surface by ponderous knees of ron bracing it on all
sides, and screwing it down to the timbers. On the Ranks itis cased

‘with wood, and at top completely covered by a targe, sloping, battened
‘natchway. Removing this hatch we expose the great try-pols, two in
‘number, and each of several barrels’ capacity. When notin use, they
are kept remarkably clean, Sametimes they are potished with soapstone
‘and sand, til they shine within like silver punch-bowls. During the
night-watches some cynical old sailors will cravi into them and coil
themselves away there for a nap. While eraployed in polishing them—one
‘man in each pot, side by side—many confidential communications are
artied on, over the iron lips. itis a place aiso for profound

‘mathematical meditation. was in the tet hand ty-pot of the Pequed,
with the soapstone difigently citing round me, that twas frst

indirectly struck by the remarkable fact, that in geametry ail bodies
aliding along the cycloid, my soapstone for example, will descend from
any point in precisely the same time.

Removing the fre-board from the front ofthe try.works, the bare
masonry of that side is exposed, penetrated by the two ron mouths of
the furnaces, directly underneath the pots. These mouths are fitted
with heavy doors of iron, The intense heat ofthe fire is prevented

from communicating itself to the deck, by means ofa shallow reservoir
‘extending under the entire inclosed surface af the works. By a tunne!
inseried al the rear, this reservoir is kept replenished with water as
