those days, the captain's authority was resticted to the navigation
and general management of the vessel; while over the whale-hunting
department and ail its concems, the Specksnyder or Chief Harpooneer
reigned supreme. In the British Greenland Fishery, under the comupted
title of Specksioneer, this old Dutch official is stil retained, but

his former dignity is sadly abridged. At present he ranks simply as

senior Harpaoneer, and as such, is but one of he captain's more

inferior subaiterns. Nevertheless, as upon the good conduct of the
harpooneers the success of a whaling voyage largely depends, and since
in the American Fishery he is not only an important officer in the

‘boat, but under certain circumstances {night watches on a whating
ground) the command of the ship's deck is also his; therefore the grand
political maxim ofthe sea demands, that he should nominally live apart
‘fom the men before the mast, and be in some way distinguished as their
professional superior; though always, by them, fanuliarly regarded as
‘heir social equal

Now, the grand distinction drawn between officer and man at sea, is,
this—the first ives af, the fast forward, Hence, in whate-ships and
merchanimen alike, the mates have their quarters with the captain; and
0, to9, in most of the American whalers the harpooneers are lodged in
the afer part of the ship. That is to say, they take their meals in

the captain's cabin, and sleep in a place indirectly communicating with
it

‘Though the fong period of a Southern whaling voyage (by far the longest
ofall voyages now oF ever made by man}, the peculiar perils ofit, and

the community of interest prevailing among a company, all of whom, high
oF low, depend for their profs, not upon fixed wages, but upan their
‘common luck, together with their common vigilance, intrepidity, and

hard work, hough ail these things do in some cases tend to beget a

less rigorous dispipline than in merchanimen generally, yet, never mind
how much like an old Mesopotamian family these whalemen may, in some
primitive instances, tive together, for al tha, the punctiious

extemals, atleast, of the quarter-deck are seldom materially relaxed,

and in no instance done away. Indeed, many are the Nantucket ships in
which you will see the skipper parading his quarter-deck with an elated
‘grandeur not surpassed in any millary navy; nay, extorting almost as
uch outward homage as ithe wore the imperial purple, and not the
shabbiest of pdot-cioth

And though of all men the moody captain of the Pequod was the least
given to that sor of shaiiowest assumption; and though the only homage
‘he ever exacted, was implicit,insiantaneaus obedience; though he
required no man to remove the shoes from his feet ere stepping upon the
quarter-deck: and though there were times when, owing to pecutiar
‘circumstances connected with events hereafter to be detailed, he
addressed them in unusual terms, whether of condescension or _in
terrorem_, or otherwise: yet even Capiain Ahab was by no means
unobservant of the paramount forms and usages of the sea.
