fooking an, he thought his own thoughts, But a sudden, terrific,
downward jesking of the boat, quickly brought his knife to the line. He
cutit: and the whate was free. But, at some distance, Moby Dick rose
again, with some tatters of Radney’s red wootlen shirt, caught in the
‘teeth that had destroyed him. All four boats gave chase again; but the
whale eluded then and finally wholly disappeared.

“in good time, the Town-Ho reached her port—a savage, solitary
place—where no civilized crealure resided. Thera, headed by the
‘Lakeman, all but five or six ofthe foremasimen deliberately deserted
among the palms; eventually, as it tured out, seizing a targe double
war-cance ofthe savages, and getting sail for some other harbor.

“The ship's company being reduced to but a handful, the captain called
upon the Islanders to assist him in the laborious business of heaving
‘down the ship to stop the teak. But to such unresting vigilance over
their dangerous allies was this small band of whites necessitated, both
‘by night snd by day, and so extreme was the hard work they underwent,
that upon the vessel being ready again for sea, they were in such a
‘weakened condition that the captain durst not put off with them in so
heavy a vessel, After taking counsel with his officers, he anchored the
ship as far off shore as possible: loaded and ran out his two cannon
‘rom the bows; stacked his muskets on the poop; and waming the
Islanders not to approach the ship at their peri, took one man with

him, and setting the sail ofhis best whale-boat, sieered straight

‘before the wind for Tahit, ive hundred mies distant, ta procure 2
einforeement to his crew.

“On the fourth day ofthe sail, a targe canoe was descried, which
seemed to have touched at a fow isle of corals, He steered away from
it, but he savage craft bore down on him, and soon the voice of
Steeikilt hailed him to heave ta, or he would sun him under water. The
capiain presented a pistol. With one foot on each prow of the yoked
war-canoes, the Lakeman laughed hin to scorn; assuring hi that ifthe
pistol so much as clicked in the tock, he would bury him in bubbles and
foam

“What do you want of me? cried the captain.

“Where are you bound? and for what are you bound” demanded Steetkit,
‘no ties."

“tam bound to Tahiti for more men,
“Very good. Let me board you a moment—t come in peace.” With that he
teaped from the canoe, swam to the boat: and climbing the gunwale,

stood face to face with the captain,

“Cross your arms, sir; throw back your head. Now. repeat after me. As
s00n as Siesikit eaves me, ! swear to beach this boat on yonder
