camry us and our fortunes securely. But as all my remonstrances
produced no effect upon Queequeg, Iwas obliged fo acquiesce, and
accordingly prepared to set about his business with a determined
tushing sort of energy and vigor, that should quickly settle that

‘eifing litle affair. Next moming early, leaving Queequeg shut up

with Yojo in our litte bedroom—for it seemed that itwas some sort of
Lent or Ramadan, or day of fasting, humiliation, and prayer with
‘Queequeg and Yojo thal day; _how_itwas never could find out, for,
though I applied myself o it several times, tnever could master his
liturgies and 20XIX Articles leaving Queequeg, then, fasting on bis:
tomahawk pipe, and Yojo warming himself at his sactifcial fre of
shavings, Hsaiied out among the shipping. Afler much profonged
sauntering and many random inquiries, Hearnt that there were three
‘ships up for three-years' voyages—The Devil-dam, the Titbit, and the
Pequod. _Devit-Dam_, Ido not know the origin of _Tit-bit_is obvious;
_Pequod_, you will ne doubt remember, was the name ofa celebrated
‘rive of Massachusetts Indians; now extinct as the ancient Medes. |
peered and pryed about the Devil-dam; from her, hopped overto the
Tit-bit; and finally, going on board the Pequad, looked around her for
‘a moment, and then decided that this was the very ship for us.

‘You may have seen many a quaint craft in your day, for aught
know;—square-toed luggers; mountainous Japanese junks; butter-box
gaiiiots, and what not: but take my word fort, you never saw such 3

‘are old raftas this same rare old Pequod. She was ship of the old
school, rather small if anything: with an old-fashioned claw-footed

took about her. Long seasoned and weather-siained in the typhoons and
calms of all four oceans, her old huil's complexion was darkened fike 2
French grenadier's, who has alike fought in Egypt and Siberia, Her
venerable bows jooked bearded. Her masts—cut somewhere on the coast of
Japan, where her original ones were last overboard in a gale—her masts
stood stifly up fike the spines of the three old kings of Cologne. Her
ancient decks were wom and wrinkled, ike the pilgrim-worshipped
ftag-stone in Canterbury Cathedral where Becket bled. Butto all these

her old antiquities, were added new and marvetious features, pertaining

to the wild business that for more than half a century she had

followed. Old Captain Peleg, many years her chiefmale, before he
‘commanded another vessel of his own, and now a retired seaman, and one
of the principal owners of the Pequod,—this old Peleg, during the term

of his chief mateship, had built upon her original grotesqueness, and

Ifaid it, at! over, with 2 quaininess bath of material and device,

unmaiched by anything except it be Thorkdll Hake's carved buckles or
bedstead. She was apparetied tike any barbaric Ethiopian emperor, his
‘neck heavy with pendants of polished ivory. She was a thing of

trophies. A cannibal of a craft, tricking herself forth in the chased

bones of her enemies. Ail found, her unpanelied, open bulwarks were
‘gamished like ane continuous jaw, with the tong sharp teeth of the

sperm whale, inserted there for pins, to fasten her old hempen thews

‘and tendons to. Those thews ran not through base blocks oftand wood,

‘but deftly travetied over sheaves of sea-ivary. Sooming a turnstile
