unaccountable odds and ends of sitange nations come up from the unknown
‘nooks and ash-holes of the earth fo man these floating outlaws of

whalers; and the ships themselves often pick up such queer castaway
creatures found tossing about the open sea on planks, bits of wreck,

oars, whaleboats, canoes, blown-off Japanese junks, and what not, that
Beeizebub himself might climb up the side and step down into the cabin

to chat with the captain, and itwould not create any unsubduable

‘excitement inthe forecast.

But be ail this as it may, certain itis that while the subordinate
phantoms soon found their place among the crew, though stil as itwere
somehow distinct rom them, yet that hair-turbaned Fedallah remained a
‘muffled mystery to the fast. Whenoe he came in. mannerly world tike
this, by what sort of unaccountable tle he soon evinoed himself to be
{inked with Ahab's peculiar fortunes: nay, so far as to have some sort
ofa haif-hinted influence; Heaven knows, but it might have been even
authority over him all this none knew. But ane cannot susiain an
indifferent air concerning Fedatiah. He was such a creature as

civilized, domestic people in the temperate zone only see in their
dreams, and that but dioy; but the fike of whom now and then glide
among the unchanging Asiatic communities, especially the Oriental isies
to the east of the continent—those insulated, immemorial, unalterable
countries, which even in these modem days stil preserve much ofthe
ghostly aboriginainess of earth's primal generations, when the memory
of the frst man was a distinct recollection, and aif men his

descendants, unknowing whence he came, eyed each other as real
phantoms, and asked of the sun and the moon why they were created and
to what end; when though, according to Genesis, the angets indeed
consorted with the daughters of men, the devils also, add the
uncanonical Rabbins, indulged in mundane amours,

‘CHAPTER 51. The Spirit Spout

Days, weeks passed, and under easy sail, the ivory Pequod had siowly
swept across four several cruising-grounds; that offthe Azores: off

the Cape de Verdes; on the Piate (s0 called), being off the mouth of
the Rio de ta Plata, and the Carrol Ground, an unstaked, watery
ocality, southerly from St. Helena

twas white gliding through these latter waters thal one serene and
‘moonlight night, when all the waves rolled by like scrolis of silver,

‘and, by their sof, suflusing seethings, made what seemed a silvery
silence, not a solitude; on such a silent night a silvery jet was seen

{ar in advance of the white bubbies at the bow. Litup by the moon, it
fooked celestial: seemed some plumed and gitiering god uprising from
the sea. Fedatiah first desctied this jet. For of these moontight

sights, itwas his wont to mount io the main-mast head, and stand a
Jook-out there, with the same precision as ifithad been day. And yet,
though herds of whales were seen by night, not one whaleman ina
