upon Daggoo, Queequeg, Tashtego: but shunning Fedatlah; and then
setting his firm selying eye upon the chief mate, said,—“Take the

s0pe, sit—t give itinto thy hands, Starbuck” Then arranging fis

person in the basket, he gave the word for them to hoist hint to his

pesch, Starbuck being the one who secured the rape at tast; and
[sfterwards stood near it. And thus, with one Rand clinging round the

royal mast, Ahab gazed abroad upon the sea for miles and miles,—ahead,
astern, this side, and that,—within the wide expanded circle commanded
at so greata height

When in working with his hands at some fafly almost isolated place in
the rigging, which chances to afford no foothold, the sailor at sea is
hoisted up to that spot, and sustained there by the rope: under these
circumstances, its fastened end on deck is always given in stict

charge fo some one man who has the special watch of it. Because in such
a wilderness of running rigging, whose various different relations

aloft cannot always be infallibly discemed by what is seen of them at

the deck, and when the deck-ends ofthese rapes are being every few
minutes cast down from the fastenings, it would be buta natural

‘alaity. if, unprovided with a constant watchman, the hoisted sailor

should by some carelessness of the crew be cast adrift. and fat! all
‘swooping fo the sea, So Ahab's proosedings in this matter were not
‘unusual; the only strange thing about them seemed to be, that Starbuck,
‘almost the one only man who had ever ventured to oppose him with
anything in the slightest degree approaching fo decision—one af those
too, whose faithfulness on the look-out he had seemed to doubt
somewhat:—itwas strange, that this was the very man he should select,
{or his waichman; freely giving his whole life into such an otherwise
distrusted person's hands.

Now, the fist time Ahab was perched aloft; ere he had been there ten
minuies; one of those sed-billed savage sea-hawks which so often fy
Ineommodiously close round the manned mast-heads of whalemen in these
talitudes; one of these birds came wheeling and screaming round his,

head in a maze of untrackably ewiftcirctings. Then itdarted a

thousand feet straight up into the air; then spiraized downwards, and

went eddying again round his head.

But with his gaze fixed upon the dim and distant hosizon, Ahab seemed
at fo mark this wild bird; nor, indeed, would any one else have marked

it much, it being no uncommon circumstance: only now atmost the feast
heedtul eye seemed to see some sort of cunning meaning in almost every
sight.

“Your hat, your hat, sit” suddenly cried the Sicifan seaman, who
sing posted at the mizen-masthead, stood directly behind Ahab, though
somewhat iower than his level, and with a deep gulf af air viding

them.

ut already the eabte wing was before the old man's eyes; the fong
