‘main hatchway right beneath, inio an unfurnished partor catied the
biubber-soom. Info this builight apartment sundry nimble hands keep
‘coiling sway the tong blanket piece as ifit were a great five mass of
plaited serpents. And thus the work proceeds: the two tackles hoisting
and lowering simultaneously; both whate and windlass heaving, the
‘heavers singing, the biubber-room gentlemen coiting, the mates
scarfing, the ship staining, and all hands swearing occasionally, by
way of assuaging the general fiction.

CHAPTER 68, The Blanket,

Ihave given no small attention to that not unvexed subject, the skin
ofthe whale. thave had controversies about it with experienced
whalemen aftoal, and teamed naturalists ashore, My original opinion
semains unchanged, but itis only an opinion

‘The question is, what and where is the skin of the whale? Already you
now what his biubber is, That blubber is something ofthe consistence
offirm, close-grained beet, but tougher, more elaste and compact, and
ranges from eight or ten to twelve and fifleen inches in thickness.

Now, however preposterous it may al frst seem to tatk of any
creature's skin as being of that sort of consistence and thickness, yet

In polntoof fact these are no arguments against such a presumption:
because you cannot raise any other dense enveloping layer from the
whale’s body but that same blubber: and the outermost enveloping fayer
of any animal, Freasonably dense, what can that be but the skin?

True, from the unmarred dead body of the whale, you may scrape off with
‘your hand an infinitely thin, transparent substance, somewhat
resembling the thinnest shreds ofisinglass, only tis almost as

exible and soft as satin; that is, previous to being dried, when it

not only contracts and thickens, bul becomes rather hard and brite. 1
‘have several such dried bits, which Ise for marks in my whale-books,
tis transparent, as | said before; and being laid upon the printed

page, Ihave sometimes pleased myselfwith fancying itexerted a
magnifying influence. At any rate, itis pleasant to sead about whales
‘through their own speciactes, as you may say. But what | am driving at
here is this. That same infinitely thin, isinglass substance, which, |

admit, invests the entire body ofthe whale, is not so much to be

regarded as the skin of the creature, as the skin ofthe skin, s0 to

speak: for it were simply ridiculous to say, that the proper skin of

the tremendous whale is thinner and mote tender than the skin of @
‘new-born child, Butne more of this,

Assuming the biubber to he the skin of the whale; then, when this skin,
asin the case of a very targe Sperm Whale, will yield the butk of one
‘hundred barrels of ait and, when itis considered that, in quantity,

or rather weight, that ol, in ils expressed siate, is only three

fourths, and not the entire substance of the coat, some idea may hence
