‘Corresponding to the crescent in our van, we beheld another in our
‘ear. seemed formed of detached white vapors, rising and falling
something like the spouts ofthe whates; onty they did not so
‘completely come snd go; for they constantly hovered, without finatly
disappearing. Levetling his glass at this sight, Ahab quickly revolved
in his pivothole, crying, “Aiof there, and rig whips and buckets to
wet the sails;—Malays, sit, and after ust”

As iftoo tong lurking behind the headlands, til the Pequod should
‘airly have entered the strails, hese rascally Asiatics were now in

‘not pursuit, to make up for thelr over-cautious delay. But when the

swift Pequod, with a fresh teading wind, was herselfin hot chase, how
very kind of these tawny philanthropists fo assist in speeding her an

to her own chosen pursuit—mere riding-whips and rowels to her, that
they were. As with glass under arm, Ahab to-and.fra paved the deck, in
zie forward turn behoiding the monsters he chased, and in the after one

the bloodthirsty pirates chasing _him_; some such fancy as the above
seemed his. And when he glanced upon the green wails ofthe watery
{dafile in which the ship was then sailing, and bethought him that

through that gate ay the route to his vengeance, and beheld, how that
‘through that same gate he was now both chasing and being chased to his
deadly end; and not only that, but a herd of remorseless wild pirates

and inhuman atheistical devils were internally cheering him on with

their curses:—when all these conceits had passed through his brain,
Anab's brow was Jefi gaunt and sibbed, ke the black sand beach after
some stormy tide has been gnawing it, without being able to drag the

‘ican thing from its place.

But thoughts fke these troubled very few of the reckless crew: and
when, after steadily dropping and dropping the pirates astem, the
Pequod a last shot by the vivid green Cockatoo Paint on the Sumatra
side, emerging at last upon the broad waters beyond: then, the
harpooneers seemed more to grieve that the swift whales had been
‘gaining upon the ship, than to rejoice that the ship had so

Victoriously gained upon the Malays. But sil driving on in the wake
ofthe whales, at fength they seemed abating their speed; gradually the
ship neared them, and the wind now dying away, word was passed to
spring to the boats. But na sooner did the herd, by some presumed
wonderful instinct of the Sperm Whale, become notified of the three
keels that were after them,—though as yet a mile in their rear.—than
they rallied again, and forming in close ranks and battalions, so that
thei spouts ail looked fike flashing lines of stacked bayonets, moved
on with redoubled velocity.

Sitipped to our shirts and drawers, we sprang to the white-ash, and
after several hours' pulling were almost disposed to renounce the

chase, when a general pausing commotion among the whales gave animating
token that they were now at fast under the influence of that strange

perplexity of inert ivesolution, which, when the fishermen perceive it
