northward ofthe Line. One moming upen handling the pumps, according
to daily usage, twas observed that she made more waler in har hold

than common. They supposed a sword-fish had stabbed her, gentlemen. But
the captain, having some unusual reason for believing that rare good

luck awaited hin in those tatitudes: and therefore being very averse to

‘quit them, and the teak not being then considered at aif dangerous,

though, indeed, they could not find it ater searching the hold as iow

down as was possible in rather heavy weather, the ship still continued

her cruisings, the mariners working at the pumps at wide and easy

intervats, but no good luck came; more days went by, and not only was

the teak yet undiscovered, but it sensibly increased. So much so, that

‘now taking some alarm, the captain, making all sal, stood away for the
nearest harbor among the istands, there to have fis hull hove out and
repaired

“Though no small passage was before her, yet, ifthe commonest chance
favoured, he did not at all fear that his ship would founder by the

way, because his pumps were of the best, and being periodically
‘relieved al them, those six-and-thirly men of his coud easity keep the
ship free; never mind ifthe teak should double on her. n truth, well

igh the whole of this passage being attended by very prosperous
breezes, the Town-Ho had ail but certainly arrived in perfect safety at
‘her port without the occurrence of the least fatality, had Itnot been

{or the brutal overbearing of Radney, the mate, a Vineyarder, and the
bitterly provoked vengeance of Steeikilt, a Lakeman and desperade from
Bufo.

“Lakemant—Buffalo! Pray, what is a Lakeman, and where is Buffalo?
said Don Sebastian, rising in Nis swinging mat of grass.

“On the eastern shore of our Lake Erie, Don; butt crave your
‘courtesy—may be, you shail soon hear further ofall that. Now,

gentlemen, in square-sail brigs and fhree-masted ships, well-nigh as

farge and stout as any that ever sailed out of your old Callao to far

Manila; iis Lakeman, in the fandtocked heart of our America, had yet
been nurtured by ail those agrarian reebooting impressions popularly
connected with the open ocean. For in their interflowing aggregate,

those grand fresh-water seas of ours,—Erie, and Ontario, and Huron, and
Supasiar, and Michigan —possess an ocean-tike expansiveness, with many
ofthe oosan's noblest traits: with many ofits immed varieties of|

races and of climes. They contain round archipetagoes of romantic

isles, even as the Polynesian waters do, in large part, are shored by

‘wo great contrasting nations, as the Adanticis; they furnish fong

‘maritime approaches fo our numerous temitorial colonies from the East,
dotted aif round their banks; here and there are frowned upon by

batteries, and by the goattike craggy guns offofly Mackinaw; they

have heard the fleet thunderings of naval victories; at intervals, they

yleld their beaches to wild barbarians, whose Ted painted faces flash

from out their pettry wigwams; for eagues and leagues are Ranked by
ancient and unentered forests, where the gaunt pines stand tike servied
