its affighted maisture into the air. From this fast vent no blood yet
came, because no vital part offhim had thus far been struck. His tie,
as they significantly call it, was untouched.

As the boats now more closely surrounded him, the whole upper part of
his form, with much ofit that is ordinadily submerged, was plainly
revealed. His eyes, of rather the places where his eyes Nad been, were
beheld, As strange misgrown masses gather in the knot-holes of the
noblest oaks when prostrate, co from the points which the whale's eyes
‘had anos occupied, now protruded blind bulbs, horribly pitiable to see.
‘ut pity there was none. For ail his old age, and his one arm, and his,
blind eyes, he must die the death and be murdered, in arderto fight

the gay bridals and other merry-makings of men, and also to illuminate
the solemn churches that preach unconditional inoffensiveness by all
all, Stil rolling in his blood, at last he partially disclosed a

strangely discoloured bunch or protuberance, the size ofa bushel, low
down on the Rank.

“Anice spol.” ciied Flask; “Just let me prick him there once”
“Avast” cried Starbuck, “there's no need of that”

‘But humane Starbuck was too fate. At the instant of he dart an
‘uloerous jet shot from this crue! wound, and goaded by it into more
than sufferable anguish, the whale now spouting thick blood, with swift
fury blindly darted at the craft, bespatiering them and their glorying
crews aif over with showers of gore, capsizing Flasks boat and marsing
the bows. itwas his death stoke. For, by this time, so spent was he

by toss of blood, that he helplessly rolled away from the wreck he had
nade: lay panting on his side, impotentiy flapped with his stumped fin,
then over and over slowly tevolved like a waning world: turned up the
white secrets of his belly: lay ike a tog, and died. Hwas most

piteous, that fast expiring spout. As when by unseen hands the water is
‘radually drawn off from some mighty fountain, and with haif-stfted
‘melancholy gurgtings the spray-column towers and lowers to the
‘ground_—so the last ong dying spout of the whale,

Soon, while the crews were awaiting the arsival ofthe ship, the body
showed symptoms of sinking with al its treasures unrified.

Immediately, by Starbuck's orders, tines were secured to it at

different points, so that ere tong every boat was a buoy; the sunken

whale being suspended a few inches beneath them by the cords, By very
heedful management, when the ship drew nigh, the whale was transferred
to her side, and was strongly secured there by the stiflest

fuke-chains, for twas plain that untess artificially upheld, the

body would at once sink to the bottom,

ttso chanced that almost upon first cutting into fim with the spade,
the entire tengih ofa corroded harpoon was found imbedded in his,
flesh, on the lower part ofthe bunch before described. But as the
