found to be a dead whale, which some Asiatics had killed, and were
then towing ashore. They seemed to endeavor to conceal themsetves
behind the whate, in order to avoid being sean by us” —_Cook's
Voyages_.

“The larger whales, they seldom venture to attack. They stand in so
great dread of some afthem, that when out at sea they are afraid to
‘mention even their names, and carry dung, lime-stone,juniper-wood,
and some other articles ofthe same nature in their boats, in order

to terrify and prevent their too neat approach.” —_Uino Von Trot's
Letters on Banks's and Solander's Voyage to loeland in_ 1772

“The Spermacetti Whale found by the Nanluckols, is an active, fleroe
animal, and requires vast address and boldness in the fishermen”
—_Thomas Jefferson's Whale Memorial to the French minister in_ 4778.

“And pray, sit, what in the world is equal to it?” —_Edmund Burke's
reference in Parliament to the Nantuoket Whale-Fishery_.

“Spain—a great whale stranded on the shores of Europe
Burke_(_somewhere_}

Edmund

 

“A tenth branch of the king's ordinary revenue, said to be grounded
‘on the consideration of his guarding and protecting the seas fram
pirates and robbers, Is the right to _royal_fish, which are whale

‘and sturgeon. And these, when either thrown ashore or eaught near the
‘past, are the property ofthe king” —_Blackstone_

“Soon to the sport of death the crews repair: Rodmond unerring o'er
tis head suspends The barbed steel, and every tum attends.”
—_Falconer's Shipwreck_

“Bright shone the roofs, the domes, the spires, And rockets blew setf
driven, To hang their momentary fire Around the vault af heaven.

“So fire with water ta compare, The ocean serves an high, Up-spouted
by a whale in alr, To express unwieldy joy.” —_Cowper, on the Queen's
Visit to London_,

“Ten of teen gaitons of blood are thrown out of the heart ata
stroke, with immense velocity." —_John Hunter's account ofthe
dissection of a whale_(_A small sized one_}

“The aorta of a whale is larger in the bore than the main pipe of the
water-works at London Bridge, and the water roaring in its passage
through that pipe is inferior in mipetus and velocity to the blood
‘gushing from the whaie’s heart” —_Paley’s Theology_.

 
