eaten with barbacued porpoises, which, you remember, are a species of
whale, Porpoises, indeed, are ta this day considered fine eating. The
‘meat is made into balls about the size ofbifiard bails, and being

‘well seasoned and spiced might be taken for turtie-balis or veal balls.

‘The old monks of Dunfermline were very fond of them. They had a great
porpoise grant from the crown.

‘The factis, that among his hunters at least, the whale would by all
hands be considered a noble dish, were there not so much of him, but
when you come to sit down before 2 meat-pie nearly one hundred feet
ong, ittakes away your appelite, Only the most unprejudiced of men
{ike Stubb, nowadays parlake of cooked whales; bul the Esquimaux are
not so fastidious. We all know how they live upon whales, and have fare
‘ld vintages of prime old train ol Zogranda, one of their most famous
doctors, recommends stips of blubber for infants, as being exceedingly
juicy and nourishing, And this reminds me that certain Englishmen, who
fong ago were accidentally left in Greenland by a whaling vesset—that
these men actualy fived for several months on the mouldy scraps of
whales which had been lef ashore after trying out the blubber. Among
the Dutch whatemen these scraps are called “fitters”; which, indeed,

they greatly resemble, being brown and crisp, and smelting something
like old Amsterdam housewives’ dough-nuts or oly-cooks, when fresh
‘Thay have such an eatable took that the most seif-denying stranger can
hardly keep his hands off

But what further depreciates the whale as a civilized dish, is his
‘exceeding richness. He is the great prize ox of the sea, too fatio be
delicately good. Look at his hump, which would be as fine eating as the
buffaio’s (which is esteemed a rare dish}, were it not such a solid
pyramid offat. But the spermaceli itself, how bland and creamy that

Js; Uke the transparent, haifjelied, while meat of a cocoanut in the

third month ofits growth, yet far too rich to supply a substitute for

Dutter. Nevertheless, many whaiemen have a method of absorbing itinto
some other substance, and then partaking of it. In the long try watches
ofthe night itis a common thing for the seamen to dip their

ship-biscui into the huge ol-pots and fet them fry there awhile, Many

‘a good supper have | thus made

In the case ofa small Sperm Whale the brains are accounted a fine
dish. The casket ofthe skull is broken into with an axe, and the two

plump, whitish lobes being withdrawn {precisely resembling two large
puddings}, they are then mixed with flour, and cooked into a most
delectable mass, in favor somewhat resembling calves’ head, which is
‘quite a dich among some epicures; and every one knows that some young
‘bucks among the epicures, by continually dining upon calves’ brains, by
and by get to have a fitte brains of their own, so as to be able to

{ella calf's head from their own heads; which, indeed, requires
uneommon diserimination. And that is the reason why a young buck with

an intelligent iooking caif's head before him, is somehow one of the
saddest sights you can see. The head looks a sort of reproachfully at
