DUODECIMOES —These include the smaller whales. I. The Huzza Porpoise.
The Aigerine Porpoise. i The Mealy-mouthed Porpoise,

Ta those who have not chanced specially to study the subject, it may
possibly seem strange, that fishes not commonly exceeding four or five
‘eet should be marshalled among WHALES—a word, which, in the popular
sense, always conveys an idea of hugeness. But the creatures set down
above as Duodecimoes are infallibly whales, by the terms of my.

definition of what a whale Is—_Le._ 2 spouting fish, with a horizontal

tail

BOOK fi (_Duodesimo_}, CHAPTER 1. (_Huzza Porpoise_}—This is the
‘common porpoise found almost all over the globe. The name is of my own
bestowal; far there are more than one sort of porpoises, and something
mustbe done to distinguish them, | call him thus, because he always:
swims in hilarious shoais, which upon the broad sea keep tossing
themselves fo heaven like caps in a Fourth-of July crowd, Their
appearance is generally hailed with delight by the mariner. Full of

fine spirits, they invariably come from the breezy billows to windward.
‘They are the fads that always live before the wind. They are accounted

a lucky omen. Ifyou yourself ean withstand three cheers at behoiding
these vivacious fish, then heaven help ye; he spirit of godty
gamesomeness is notin ye. A well-fed, plump Huzza Porpoise will yield
‘you one good gation of goad oil. But the fine and delicate fluid

extracted from his jaws is exceedingly valuable. itis in request among
Jewellers and watchmakers. Sailors put iton their hones. Porpoise meat
1s good eating, you know. Htmay never have occurred to you that a
porpoise spouts. Indeed, his spout is so small that tis not very

readlly discernible. But the next ime you have a chance, watch him,

and you will then see the great Sperm whale himselfin miniature,

BOOK th. (_Duodecime_}, CHAPTER Hh. (_Algerine Pompoise_}—A pirate.
Very savage. He is only found, !frink, in the Pacific. He is somewhat
larger than the Huzza Porpoise, but much of the same general make.
Provoke him, and he will buckle fo a shark. [have lowered for hie many
times, but never yet saw hin captured.

BOOK tt {_Duodecimo_}, CHAPTER ll. (_Mealy-mouthed Porpoise_}—The
argest kind of Porpoise; and only found in the Pacific, so far ast

is known. The only English name, by which he has hitherto been
designated, is that of the fishers—Right Whale Porpoiee, from the
circumstance that he is chiefly found in the vicinity of that Fotio. in
shape, he differs In some degree fom the Huzza Porpoise, being ofa
Jess rotund and jolly gith; indeed, he is of quite a neat and
‘gentlemantike figure. He has na fins on his back (most other porpoises
‘have), he has a lovely tai, and sentimental indian eyes of a hazel

hue. But his mealy-mouth spoils all, Though hie entire back down to his
side fins is of a deep sable, yet a boundary line, distinct as the mark
in.a ship's hull, cated the “bright waist,” that fine streaks hima from,

 
