woods, the last day afthe year! Who'd ga climbing after chestnuts now?
ut there they go, ail cursing, and here don’t Fine prospecis to

‘em; they're on the road to heaven, Hold an hard! Jimmini, what 2

squall! But those chaps there are worse yel—they are your white

_squails, they, White squalls? white whale, shirt shirt! Here have }

‘heard ail their chat just now, and the while whale—shiri! shiaibut

spoken of once! and only this evering—it makes me jingle all over like

‘my tambourine—that anaconda of an ald man swore ‘em in fo hunt him! Oh,
thou big white God alof there somewhere in yon darkness, have mercy on
this small black boy down here: preserve him from all men that have no
bowels to fee! fear!

CHAPTER 41, Maby Diok.

| Ishmael, was one of that crew; my shouts had gone up with the rest
my oath had been welded with theirs; and stronger | shouted, and more
did Ehammer and clinch my oath, because of the dread in my soul. A
wild, mystical, sympathetical feeling was in me; Ahab's quenchiess feud
seemed mine. With greedy ears [learned the history of hat murderous
monster against whom | and aif the others had taken our oaths of
violence and revenge.

For some time past, though at intervais only, the unaccompanied,
secluded White Whale had haunted those unciviized seas mostly
frequented by the Sperm Whale fishermen. But not all of them knew of
‘his existence: only a few ofthem, comparatively, had knowingly seen
‘nina: while the number who as yet had actuatly and knowingly given
battle to him, was smail indeed. For, owing to the targe number of
whale-cruisers; the disorderly way they were sprinkled over the entire
watery circumference, many of them adventurously pushing their quest
along solitary latitudes, so as seldom or never for a whole twelvemonth
or more on a stretch, to encounter a single news-teliing sail of any

sort; the inordinate length of each separate voyage: the regularity
ofthe times of sailing from home; all these, with other circumstances,
direct and indirect, Jong obstructed the spread through the whole
world-wide whaling-fleet of the special individualizing fidings
conceming Moby Dick. twas hardiy to be doubted, that several vessels
seported to have encountered, at such or such a time, or on such oF

such a meridian, a Sperm Whale of uncommon magnitude and malignity
which whale, after doing great mischief to his assailants, had

completely escaped them, to some minds it was not an unfair
presumption, Fsay, thal the whale in question must have been no other
than Moby Dick. Yet as of late the Sperm Whale fishery had been marked
by various and not unfrequent instances of great ferocity, cunning, and
‘malice in the monster attacked; therefore it was, that those who by
accident ignorantly gave battle to Moby Dick; such hunters, perhaps,

{or the most part, were content to ascribe the peculiar terror he bred,
more, as it were, to the perils ofthe Sperm Whale fishery at large,

than to the individual cause. In that way, mostly, the disastrous
