‘a rake in turning over the bottom of the sea for food. Charley Coffin
‘said itwas used for an ice-piercer; for the Narwhale, rising to the

surface ofthe Polar Sea, and finding it sheeted with foe, thrusts his

‘horn up, and so breaks through. But you cannat prove either of these
surmises to be correct. My own opinion is, that however this one-sided
hom may really be used by the Narwhale—however that may be—it would
cerlainly be very convenient to him for a folder in reading pamphiets.

‘The Narwhale [have heard called the Tusked whale, the Homed whale,
and the Unicom whale. He Is certainty a curious example of the
Unicoraiem to be found in almost every kingdom of animated nature. From
certain cloistered old authors thave gathered that this same

sea-unicorn's hom was in ancient days regarded as the great antidote
‘against poison, and as such, preparations of it brought immense prices.
Iwas also distilled to a volatile salts for fainting ladies, the same

‘way that the homs ofthe mate deer are manufactured into hartshorn.
‘Originally it was in itsetf accounted an object of great curiosity.

Black Letter tells me that Sir Martin Frobisher on his retum from that
‘voyage, when Queen Bess did gallantly wave her jewelled hand to him
from a window of Greenwich Palace, as his bold ship sailed down the
‘Thames; “when Sir Martin retumed from that voyage,” saith Back

Letter, “on bended knees he presented to her highness a prodigious long
hom ofthe Nanwhale, which for a fong period after hung in the castle

‘at Windsor." An fish author avers that the Ear! of Leicester, on

bended knees, did likewise present to her highness another hom,
pertaining to a land beast of the unicom nature.

‘The Nanwhale has a very picturesque, teopard-tike 100k, being of a
iilksshite ground colour, dotted with round and oblong spots of black
His oils very superior, clear and fine; but there is ftie of it,

and he is seldom hunted. He is mostly found in the circumpolar seas.

BOOK If (_Octavo_}, CHAPTER IV.(_Killer_}—Of this whale tte is
precisely known to the Nantucketer, and nothing at all to the professed
‘aturalist. From what {have seen ofhim at a distance, tshould say
thathe was about the bigness of a grampus. He is very savage—a sort of
Feegee fish. He sometimes takes the great Folio whales by the lip, and
hangs there like a leech, ti! the mighty brute is worried to death

‘The Killer ig never hunted. tnever heard what sort of oll he has,

Exception might be taken to the name bestowed upon this whale, on the
ground ofits indistinciness. For we are ali killers, on land and on

sea; Bonaparies and Sharks included.

BOOK Hi. (_Oclavo_}, CHAPTER V. (_Thrasher_}—This genileman is famous
{or his ta, which Re uses for a fenule in thrashing his foes. He

mounts the Folio whale's hack, and as he swims, he works his passage by
flogging him, as some schoolmasters get along in the world by a similar
process. Stil less is known of the Thrasher than of the Killer. Both

are outlaws, even in the fawiess seas,

‘Thus ends BOOK Ht (_Octavo_}, and begins BOOK Ht (_Duodecimo_}.
