{infatlibty tead you to water, water there be in all that region,
Should you ever be athirst in the great American desert, try this
experiment, if your caravan happen to be supplied with a metaphysical
professor. Yes, as every one knows, meditation and water are wedded for

Buthere is an artist, He desires to paint you the dreamiest, shadiest,
quietest, most enchanting bit of romantic landscape in ail the valley
ofthe Saco, Whats the chief element he employs? There stand his
‘tees, each with a hollow trunk, as if hermit and a crucifix were

within: and here sleeps his meadow, and there sleep his cattle; and up
from yonder cottage goes a sleepy smoke. Deep into distant woodlands
winds a mazy way, reaching to overlapping spurs of mountains bathed in,
their hil-side blue. But though the picture ties thus anced, and

‘though this pine-ree shakes down its sighs #ke feaves upon this
shepherd's head, yet all were vain, unless the shepherd's eye were
fixed upon the magic stream before him. Go visit the Prairies in June,
when for scores on scores of mites you wade knee-deep among
Tiger-iies what is the one charm wanting?—Waler—there is not a drop
of water there! Were Niagara but a cataract of sand, would you travel
your thousand miles to see il? Why did the poor poet of Tennessee, upon
suddenly receiving two handfuls of silver, deliberate whether to buy

‘him a cost, which he sadly needed, or invest his money in a pedestian
‘tip to Rockaway Beach? Why is almost every robust healthy boy with a
robust healthy soul in him, at some time or other crazy to go to sea?

Why upon your frst voyage as a passenger, did you yourself fee! such a
‘mystical vibration, when first told that you and your ship were now out

of sight of land? Why did the old Persians hold the sea holy? Why did
the Greeks give ita separate deity, and own brother of Jove? Surely

ail this is not without meaning. And stil deeper the meaning of that

story of Narcissus, who because he could not grasp the tormenting, rid
Image he saw in the fountain, plunged into itand was drowned. But that
same image, we ourselves see in all vers and oceans. tis the image
ofthe ungraspabie phantom offife; and this is the key to it at

Now, when | say that |am in the habit of going to sea whenever thegin
to grow hazy about the eyes, and begin fo be over conscious af my

Jungs, tdo not mean to Rave it inferred that | ever go to sea as 2
passenger. For to go as a passenger you must needs have a purse, and a
purse is buta rag unless you have something in it. Besides, passengars
get sea-sick—grow quarreisome—don't sleep of nights—da not enjoy
themiseives much, as a general thing—no, I never go as a passenger:

197, though Lam something ofa salt, do Fever go to sea asa

‘Commodore, or a Captain, of a Cook. Labandon the glory and distinction
‘of such offices to those who like them, For my part, f abominale: all
honorable sespeciable toits, vials, and tibulations of every kind
whatsoever. tis quite as much as ican do to take care of myseff,

without taking care of ships, barques, brigs, schooners, and what not

And as far going as cook,—though I confess there is considerable glory

{in that, @ cook being a sort of officer on ship-board—yet, somehow, }
