But not only is the sea such 2 foe to man who is an alien to it, butt
is also a fiend to its own off-spring; worse than the Persian host who
murdered his own guests: sparing not the creatures which itseif hath
spawned. Like 2 savage tigress that tossing in the jungle overlays her
own cubs, 0 the sea dashes even the mightiest whales against the
rocks, and leaves them there side by side with the split wrecks of
ships. No mercy, no power butits own controls it. Panting and snorting
{ike a mad battle steed that has fost its rider, the masterless ovean
overruns the globe.

‘Consider the subtieness ofthe sea; how its most dreaded creatures
glide under water, unapparent for the most past, and teacherousty
hidden beneath the jovellest tints of azure. Consider also the devilish
briliance and beauty of many ofits most remorseless tribes, as the
dainty embellished shape of many species of sharks. Consider, once
more, the universal cannibalism of the sea, all whose creatures prey
upon each other, carrying on eternal war since the world began,

Consider ail this; and then tum to this green, gentle, and most docile
‘earth; consider them both, the sea and the land: and do you not find 2
strange analogy to something in yourself? For as this appaiting acean
surrounds the verdant land, so in the soul of man there fies one.
insular Tail ful of peace and joy, but encompassed by all the
horrors ofthe haif known jife. God keep thee! Push not offfiom that
isle, thou canst never retum!

CHAPTER 59, Squid.

Slowly wading through the meadows of bit, the Pequod stil heid on her
way north-eastward towards the isiand of Java: a gentle air impelting
‘her keel, so that in the surrounding serenity her three tall tapering
‘masts mildly waved to that fanguid breeze, as three rilld paims on a
plain. And stil, at wide intervals in the silvery night, the fonely,

alluring jet would be seen,

‘But one transparent blue moming, when a siliness almost preternatural
spread over the sea, however unatiended with any stagnant caim; when
the tong burnished sun-glade on the walers seemed a golden finger laid
‘across them, enjoining some secrecy; when the slippered waves whispered
together as they softly ran on; in this profound hush of the visible

sphere a strange spectre was seen by Daggoo fram the main-masthead

Inthe distance, a great white mass lazily rose, and rising higher and
higher, and disentangiing itself from the azure, at fast gleamed before

‘our prow fike a snow-slide, new slid from he hills. Thus glistening

for a moment, as slowly it subsided, and sank. Then once more arose,

and silently gleamed. ft seemed not a whale: and yet is this Moby Dick?
thought Daggos. Again the phantom went down, but on re-appearing once
