CHAPTER 48, Surmises,

‘Though, consumed with the hot fre of his purpose, Ahab in all his
thoughts and actions ever had in view the ultimate capture of Moby

Dick; though he seemed ready to sacrifice alt mortal interests to that

one passion; nevertheless it may have been that he was by nature and
tong habituation far too wedded to a fiery whaleman's ways, aliogether

to abandon the collateral prosecution of the voyage. OF at east

this were otherwise, there were not wanting other molives much more
‘influential with him, flwould be refining too much, perhaps, even
considering his monomania, to hint that his vindictiveness towards the
White Whale might have possibly extended itseifin some degree to att
sperm whales, and that the more monsters he slew by so much the more he
‘multiplied the chances that each subsequently encountered whale would
prove to be the hated one he hunted. But fsuch an hypothesis be

indeed exoeptionable, there were stil additional considerations which,
though not so strictly according with the wildness of Ris ruling

passion, yet were by no means incapabie of swaying hie

‘To accomplish his object Ahab must use tools; and ofall tools used in
the shadow of the moon, men ate most apt to get out of order. He knew,
{for example, that however magnetic his ascendency in some respects was
over Starbuck, yet thal ascendency did not cover the complete spiritual
man any more than mere corporeal superiosity involves intettectual
mastership; for to the purely spivitual, the inteHectual but stand in

12 sort of corporeal relation, Starbuck's body and Starbuck's enereed

‘will were Ahab’s, so tong as Ahab kept his magnet at Starbuck's brain,
Stil he knew thal for al this the chief mate, in his soul, abhorred

‘is captain's quest, and could he, would joyfully disintegrate himself
‘fom it, or even frustrate it might be that a iong interval would

‘lapse ere the White Whale was seen, During that iong interval Starbuck
would ever be apt to fall into open relapses of rebeltion against his
capiain’s leadership, unless some ordinary, prudential, circumstantial
influences were brought to bear upon him. Not oniy that, but the subtle
insanity of Ahab respecting Moby Dick was noways more significantly
‘manifested than in his superlative sense and shrewdness in foreseeing
that, for the present, the hunt should in some way be stipped of that
strange imaginative impiousness which naturally invested it, that the

{ull terror of the voyage must be kept withdrawn into the obscure
background (for few men’s courage is proof against provacted
meditation unretieved by action}; that when they stood thelr fong night
watches, his officers and men must have some nearer things to think of
than Moby Dick. For however eagerly and impetuously the savage crew had
hailed the announcement of his quest. yet all sailors of all sorts are

‘more or fess capricious and unreliablo—they tive in the varying outer
weather, and thay inhale its ickleness—and when retained for any
object remote and biank in the pursuit, however promissory of fife and
passion in the end, itis above all things requisite that temporary
interests and employments should intervene and hold them healthily
suspended for the nal dash
