blood of grapes and mulberries cast before Anliochus's elephants in the
book of Maccabees, Meanwhile Ahab half smothered in the foam ofthe
whale’s insolent tail, and too much of a crinple to ewim,—though he
‘could stil keep aftoat, even in the heart of such a whirlpool as that
helptess Ahab's head was seen, ike a tossed bubble which the least
‘chance shock might burst. From the boat's fragmentary stem, Fedallan
incuriously and midly eyed hie; the clinging crew, at the other

daifing end, could nat suecor him; more than enough was itfor them to
took to themsetves. For so revolvingly appatiing was the White Whale’s
aspect, and so planetanily swift the ever-contracting circles he made,
that he seemed horizontally swooping upon them. And though the other
boats, unharmed, stil hovered hard by: still they dared not pul into

the eddy to strike, fest that should be the signal for he instant
Sestruction ofthe jeopardized castaways, Ahab and all; nor in that,

case could they themselves hope to escape. With straining eyes, then,
they semained on the outer edge ofthe direful zone, whose centre had
now become the old man's head,

Meantime, from the beginning all this had been descried fom the ship's
mast heads; and squaring her yards, she had bome down upon the scene:
and was now so nigh, thal Ahab in the water hailed her!—Sail on
the"—but that moment a breaking sea dashed on him from Moby Dick, and
whetmed him for the time. But struggling out ofit again, and chancing

to fise on a towering crest, he shouted, "Sail on the whalet—Drive hier
ofr

The Pequod's prows were pointed, and breaking up the charmed circle,
she effectually parted the white whale from his vietim. As he sullenty
‘swam off, the boats flew to the rescue.

Dragged into Stubb's boat with blood-shot, blinded eyes, the white
brine caking in his wrinkles; the ong terssion of Ahab's bodily

strength did crack, and helplessly he yielded to his body's doom: for a
‘ime, ying all crushed in the bottom of Stubb's boat, tke one trodden
under foot of herds of elephants, Far inland, nameless wails came from
‘him, a5 desolate sounds from out ravines.

ut this intensity ofhis physical prostration did but so much the more
abbreviate it. an instant’s compass, great hearts sometimes condense
to one deep pang, the sum total of thase shallow pains kindly diftused
through feebler men’s whole lives. And so, such hears, though summary
in each one suffering; sti, iTthe gods decree it, in thet life-time
aggregate a whole age of woe, whally made Up of instantaneous
intensities; for even in their pointless centres, those noble natures
‘contain the entire circumferences of inferior souls.

“The harpoon,” said Ahab, haif way rising, and draggingly tearing on
one bended arm—'isit safe™

“Aye, si for twas not darted; this is it” said Stubb, showing i.
