teash. The agonized whale goes into his fury; the tow-Hine is
slackened, and the pitehpoter dropping astem, foids his hands, and
mutely watches the monster die.

‘CHAPTER 85. The Fountain,

‘That for six thousand years—and no one knows how many milfions of ages
before—the great whales should have been spouting ail over the sea, and
sprinkling and mistifying the gardens of the deep, as with so many
spriniding or mistiying pots; and that for some centuries back,

thousands of hunters should have been close by the fountain ofthe
whale, watching these sprinklings and spoutings—that allthis should

‘be, and yet, that down to this blessed minute (fiteen and a quarter
minutes past one o'clock PAM. ofthis sixteenth day of December, AD.
4852), it should stil remain a problem, whether these spoutings are

after ail, really water, oF nothing but vapor—thisis surely a

noteworthy thing

Letus, then, took at this matter, along with some interesting items:
contingent. Every one knows that by the peculiar cunning of their

agilts, the finny ttibes in general breathe the air which at ail mes

is combined with the element In which they swim; hence, a herring or a
‘cod might live a century, and never ones raise its head above the
surface. But owing to his marked internal structure which gives him
regular jungs, like a human being’s, the whale can only five by
inhaling the disengaged air in the open atmosphere. Wherefore the
necessity for his periodical visits to the upper world, But he cannot

in any degree breathe through his mouth, for, in bis ordinary altitude,
the Sperm Whaie's mouth is buried at feast eight feet beneath the
surface: and what is silt more, his windpipe has no connexion with his
‘mouth, No, he breathes through his spiracte alone; and this is on the
top af his head.

ttt say, that in any creature breathing is only a function
indispensable to vilaily, inasmuch as it withdraws from the airs

certain element, which being subsequently brought inte contact with the
‘blood imparts to the blood its vivifying principle, Fdo not think F

shall e77; though t may possibly use some superfuous scientific words.
Assume it, and it flows that ifail the blood in a man could be

aerated with one breath, he might then seal up his nostrils and not
{eich another for a considerabie time. That is to say, he would then

five without breathing, Anomalous as it may seem, this is precisely the
‘case with the whale, who systematically lives, by intervals, fis Tul

hour and more (when at the bottom) without drawing a single breath, or
s0 much as in any way inhaling a particle of air, for, remember, he has
‘ne gills. How is this? Between his ribs and on each side of his spine

‘he is supplied with a remarkable involved Cretan labyrinth of
vermicelii-like vessels, which vessels, when he quits the surface, are
completely distended with oxygenated blood. So that for an hour or
