principle or sout in him, and in sleep, being for the time dissociated
from the characterizing mind, which at other times employed it for is
outer vehicle oF agent, it spontaneously sought escape from the
scorehing contiguity ofthe frantic thing, of which, for the time, it

‘was no longer an integral, Butas the mind does not exist unless

Jeagued with the soul, therefore it must have been thal, in Abab's,

case, yielding up all his thoughts and fancies to his one supreme
purpose: thal purpose, by its own sheer inveteracy of wil, forced

itself against gods and devils into a kind of setfassumed, independent
being ofits own. Nay, could grimly five and bum, while the common
Vitality to which it was conjoined, fled horror-stricken from the

unbidden and unfathered birth. Therefore, the tormented spirit that
alared out of bodily eyes, when whal seemed Ahab sushed from his room,
‘was for the time but a vacated thing, a formless somnambutistic being

a ray offiving light, to be sure, but without an object to colour, and
‘therefore a blankness in itself. God help thee, old man, thy thoughts:

have created a crealure in thee: and he whose intense thinking thus
‘makes him a Prometheus; a vulture feeds upon that heart for ever. that
vulture the very creature he creates.

CHAPTER 45. The Affidavit,

So far as what there may be of a narrative in this book; and, indeed,
as indirectly touching one or two very interesting and curious

particulars in the habits of sperm whales, the foregoing chapter, in

its eadier part, is as important a one as wil be found in this,

volume; but the leading matter of it equites to be stl further and

more familiarly enlarged upon, in order to be adequately understood,

‘and moreover to take away any incredulity which a profound ignorance of
the entire subject may Induce in some minds, as to the natural verity
ofthe main points ofthis affair.

Fare not to perform this part of my task methodically; but shall be
‘content to produce the desired impression by separate citations of
items, practically or reliably known to me as a whalemsn; and from
these citations, | take it—the conclusion aimed at will naturally
follow ofitsel.

First: [have personally known three instanoes where a whale, after
receiving a harpoon, has effected a campiete escape: and, after an
interval (in one instance ofthree years), has been again struck by the
‘same hand, and slain; when the two irons, both marked by the same
private cypher, have been taken from the bady. In the instance where
three years intervened between the Ringing ofthe two harpoons, and t
think it may have been something more than thal; the man who darted
them happening, in the interval, to go in a trading ship on a voyage to
Africa, went ashore there, joined a discovery party, and penetrated far
into the interior, where he travelied for a period of nearly two years,

ofien endangered by serpents, savages, tigers, poisonous miasmas, with
