‘pair, and hold on there tke grim death,

‘CHAPTER 54, The Town-Ho's Story.
{_Astold atthe Gaiden Inn}

‘The Cape of Good Hope, and all the watery region round about there, is
‘much like some noted four comers of a great highway, where you meat
‘more travellers than in any other part

twas not very tong after speaking the Goney that another
‘homeward-bound whaleman, the Town-Ho," was encountered. She was manned
‘aimost wholly by Polynesians. in the short gam that ensued she gave us
strong news of Maby Disk. To some the general interest in the White
Whale was now wildly heightened by a circumstance of the Town-Ho's
story, which seemed obscurely to involve with the whaie a certain
wondrous, inverted visitation of one af those so called judgments of

‘God which at mes are said to overtake some men. This iatler
circumstance, with its own particular accompaniments, forming what may
be called the secret part ofthe tragedy about to be narrated, never
reached the ears of Captain Ahab or his mates. For that secret part of

the slory was unknown to the capiain ofthe Town-Ho himself twas the
private property of three confederate white seamen ofthat ship, one of
whom, it seems, communicated ito Tashtego with Romish injunctions of
secrecy, but the following night Tashtego rambled in his sleep, and
Teveaied 50 much ofit in that way, that when he was wakened he could
‘not well withhold the rest. Nevertheless, so potent an influence did

{his thing have on those seamen in the Pequod who came to the full
knowledge oft, and by such a strange delicacy, to call itso, were

they governed in this matter, that they kept the secret among

themselves s0 that it never tanspired abaft the Pequod's main-mast.
Interweaving in its proper place this darker thread with the story as
publicly narvated on the ship, the whole of this strange affair inow
proceed to put on jasting record

“The ancient whale-ory upon first sighting a whale from the masthead,
sii used by whalemen in hunting the famous Galtipagos terrapin.

For my humor's sake, | shall preserve the style in which Fonce
narrated it at Lima, to a founging circle of my Spanish friends, one
saint's eve, smoking upon the thick-git fled piazza of the Golden

Inn. Of those fine cavatiers, the young Dons, Pedro and Sebastian, were
‘on the closer terms with me; and hence the intertuding questions they
‘becasionally put, and which are duly answered at the time.

“Some two years prior to my frst eaming the events which tam about
rehearsing fo you, gentlemen, the Town-Ho, Sperm Whaler of Nantucket,
was cruising in your Pacific here, not very many days’ sail eastward
from the eaves of this good Golden Inn. She was samewhere to the
