oscillates in Jonah's roam: and the ship, heeling over towards the
‘wharf with the weight ofthe fast bales received, the lamp, Rame and
al, though in slight motion, stil maintains a permanent obliquity

with reference to the room: though, in truth, infalibly straight

liseif, it but made obvious the fatse, tying fevets among which it

‘hung, The lamp alarms and frightens Jonah; as tying in his berth his
tormented eyes rail found the place, and this thus far successful
fugitive finds no refuge for his restless glance. But that

contradiction in the tamp more and more appats him. The floor, the
‘ceiling, and the side, are all awry. ‘Oh! so my conscience hangs in
‘me! he groans, ‘straight upwards, so it buns: but the chambers of my
soul are all in crookedness!

“Like one who after a night of drunken reveiry hies to his bed, sti
‘seefing, but with conscience yet pricking him, as the plungings of the
Roman race-horse but so much the more strike his stee! tags into him:
as one who in that miserable plight sill turns and tums in giddy

anguish, praying God fer annihilation until the ft be passed, and at

fast amid the whirl ofwoe he feels, a deep stupor steals over him, a8
‘over the man who bleeds to death, for conscience is the wound, and
‘there's naught to staunch it; so, afler sore wrestings in his berth,

Jonah's prodigy of ponderous misery drags him drowning down to steep.

“And now the time of tide has come; the ship casts off her cables; and
‘rom the deserted wharf the uncheered ship for Tarshish, afl careening,
glides to sea. That ship, my friends, was the frst of recorded

smugglersf the contraband was Jonah. But the sea rebels; he wil not
bear the wicked burden. A dreadful storm comes on, the ship is tke to
break. But now when the boatewain calle all hands to lighten her, when
boxes, bales, and jars are clattering overboard; when the wind is
shrieking, and the men are yelling, and every plank thunders with
trampling feet right over Jonah’s head; in ail this raging tureult,

Jonah sleeps his hideous sleep. He sees no black sky and raging sea,
feels not the reeling timbers, and little hears he or heeds he the far

rush of the mighly whale, which even now with open mouth is cleaving
the seas after him. Aye, shipmates, Jonah was gone down into the sides.
ofthe ship—a besth in the cabin as Hhave taken it, and was fast

asleep. But the frightened master comes to him, and shrieks in his dead
ear, ‘What meanest thou, O, sleeper! arise! Startled from his lethargy

by that direful cry, Jonah staggers to his feet, and stumbting to the

deck, grasps a shroud, to took out upon the sea. But at thal moment he
is sprung upen by a panther billow leaping ovar the bulwarks, Wave
after wave thus teaps Into the ship, and finding no speedy vent runs
roaring fore and al, til the mariners come nigh to drowning while yet
afloat, And ever, as the while moon shows her affrighted face from the
steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the fearing
bowspnt pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the
tormented deep,

“Terrors upon terrors run shouting through bis soul tn all his
