“There go two daft ones now," muttered the ofd Manxman. “One daft with
sttengih, the other daft with weakness. But here's the end of the

rotten fine—al dripping, too. Mend it, eh? I think we had best have a
new fine altogether. I see Mr. Stubb about it"

CHAPTER 128, The Life-Buoy.

Steering now south-eastward by Ahab's fevelled sieel, and her progress
solely determined by Ahab's feve! iog and line; the Pequod held on her
path towards the Equator. Making so long a passage through such
unfrequented waters, descrying 10 ships, and ere long, sideways
impelled by unvarying trade winds, over waves monotonously mid; all
these seemed the strange caim things preluding some riatous and
desperate scene,

Atlast, when the ship drew near to the outsitris, as itwere, ofthe
Equatorial fishing-ground, and In the deep darkness that goes before
the dawn, was sailing by a cluster of rocky isiets; the watch—then
headed by Flask—was startied by a cry so plaintively wild and
unearthly tke haifarticulated waitings ofthe ghosts of all Herod's
murdered Innaoents—that one and aii, they started from their severies,
and for the space of some moments stood, or sat, of leaned all
transfxediy listening, like the carved Roman slave, while that wild

ery remained within hearing. The Chistian or civilized part ofthe

‘crew said It was mermaids, and shuddered: but the pagan harpooneers
remained unappalied. Yet the grey Manxman—the oldest mariner of
‘alideciared that the wild thriling sounds that were heard, were the
voices of newly drowned men in the sea

Below in his hammock, Ahab did not hear of this til grey dawn, when he
came to the deck: itwas then recounted to him by Flask, nat
unaccompanied with hinted dark meanings. He hollawly taughed, and thus.
explained the wonder.

‘Those rocky islands the ship had passed were the resort of great
aumibers of seats, and some young seals that had tost heir dams, of
some dams that had lost their cubs, must have risen nigh the ship and
kept company with her, erying and sobbing with their human sort of
‘wail. But this only the more affected some of them, because most
mariners cherish a very superstitious feeling about seats, arising not
onty from their peculiar tones when in distress, but also fom the
‘human look of their round heads and semiinteltigent faces, seen
asringly uprising from the water alongside. In the sea, under certain
‘circumstances, seals have more than once been mistaken for men.

‘But the bodings of the crew were destined to receive a most plausible
‘eonfirmation in the fate of one af their number that moming. At
sur-tise this man went from his hammock to his masthead at the fore;
