faces which | should say might be somewhere within nine fathoms fang
And ail from looking at a piece of gold, which did have itnow on

Negro Hill orn Contaer's Hook, I'd not look at it very jong ere

‘spending it. Humipht in my poor, insignificant opinion, regard this as
user. Ihave seen doublaons before now in my voyagings: your doubloons
ofold Spain, your doubioans of Peru, your daubtoons of Chili, your
doublons of Bolivia, your doublaons of Popayan; with plenty of gold
moidores and pistoles, and joes, and haifjoes, and quarter joes. What
then should there be in this doubloon ofthe Equator that is so killing
wonderful? By Goicondal fet me read it once. Halloal here's signs and
wonders tuly! That, now, is what old Bowditch in his Epitome calis the
Zodiac, and what my almanac below calls ditto. Fi get the almanac and
‘as {have heard devils can be raised with Dabatl's arithmetic, FW ry

‘my hand at raising a meaning out ofthese queer curvicues here with the
Massachusetts calendar. Here's the book, Let's see now. Signs and
‘wonders; and the sun, he's always among ‘em. Hem, hem, hem; here they
_are—here they go—ail alive —Aries, or the Ram; Taurus, or the Bull and
«imimit here’s Gemini himself, or the Twins. Well; the sun he wheeis
among 'em. Aye, here on the cain he's just erossing the threshold
between two of tweive siting-rooms ail in a ting. Book! you tie there;

the factis, you books must know your piaces. You'll do to give us the

‘bare words and facts, but we come in to supply the thoughts. That's my
small experience, so far as the Massachusetts calendar, and Bowaitch’s
navigator, and Dabot's arithmetic go. Signs and wonders, eh? Pity i
there is nothing wonderful in signs, and significant in wonders!

‘There's a clue somewhere, wait a bt; histhark! By Jove, Lhave itt

Lock you, Doubloon, your zodiac here is the fife of man in one round
chapter; and now Fl read it off, straight out ofthe book. Come,

Almanack! To begin: there's Aties, or the Ram—lecherous dog, he begets
us; then, Taurus, oF the Bull—he bumps us the first thing; then Gemini,

or the Twins—that is, Virtue and Vice; we ty to reach Virtue, when fol
‘comes Cancer the Crab, and drags us back, and here, going from Virtue
Leo, a roaring Lion, ties in the path—he gives a few fetes bites and

surly dabs with his paw: we eseape, and hail Virgo, the Virgin! that’s

‘our frst love; we marry and think to be happy for aye, when pop comes
Libra, or the Scales—happiness weighed and found wanting; and while we
‘are very sad about that, Lord! how we suddenty jump, as Scorpio, of the
Soorpion, stings us in the rear; we are curing the wound, when whang
‘come the srrows ail round; Sagittarius, or the Archer, is amusing

himself. As we pluck out the shafts, stand aside! here's the

battering-ram, Capricorus, or the Goat, full fi, he comes rushing,

and headiong we are tossed; when Aquarius, or the Water-bearer, pours.
‘out his whole deluge and drowns us; and to wind up with Pisces, or the
Fishes, we sleep. There's a sermon now, writin high heaven, and the
‘sun goes through it every year, and yet comes out of tail ative and
hearty. Jotily he, alo there, wheels through tod and trouble; and

80, alow here, does jolly Sib. Oh, Jolly's the word for aye! Adieu,
Doubloon! aut stop; here comes lite King-Past; dodge round the
‘ry-works, now, and let's hear what he'll have to say. There; he's

before it: he'll out with something presently. So, so; he’s beginning.”
