and captured by another vesset; and herein are indirectly comprised
‘many minor contingencies, ail partaking of this one grand feature. For
example —afler a weary and perilous chase and capture of whale, the
body may get loose from the ship by reason of a violent storm; and
rifting far away to leeward, be retaken by a second whaler, who, in 2
calm, snugly tows it alongside, without ask of ife or tine. Thus the

‘most vexatious and violent disputes would often arise between the
fishermen, were there not some writen or unwritten, universal
undisputed faw applicable to ali cases,

 

Perhaps the only formal whating code authorized by legistative
‘enactment, was that of Holland. twas decreed by the Staizs-General in
A.D. 1895. But though no other nation has ever had any waitten whaling
taw, yet the American fishermen have been their own legislators and
tawyers in this matter. They have provided a system which for terse
comprehensiveness surpasses Justinian’s Pandecis and the By-laws of the
‘Chinese Society for the Suppression of Meddling with other Peapie's
Business. Yes; thase laws might be engraven on a Queen Anne's fasthing
or the barb ofa harpoon, and worn round the neck, 50 small are they.

A FastFish belongs to the party fast to it
B.A Loose-Fish is fair game for anybody who can soonest catch it.

[But what plays the mischief with this masterly code is the admirable
brevity of it, which necessitates a vast volume of commentaries to
‘expound it

First: What is a Fast-Fish? Alive or dead a fish is technically fast,
when itis connected with an occupied ship or boat, by any medium at
aif controllable by the occupant or occupants,—a mast, an oar, 2
‘nine-inch cable, a telegraph wire, ar a strand of cobweb, itis all the
same. Likewise a fish is technically fast when it bears a waif, or any
other recognised symbol of possession; so tong as the party waifing it
plainly evince their ability at any time fo take it alongside, as well

_as their intention so to do.

‘These are scientific commentaries; but the commentaries of the whalemen
themselves sometimes consist in hard words and harder knocks—the
‘Coke-upon-Litleton of he fist. True, among the more upright and

honorable whatemen allowances ate always made for peculiar cases, where
itwould be an outrageous moral injustice for one party to claim

possession of a whale previously chased or killed by another party. But
others are by no means so scrupulous.

Some fifty years ago there was a curious case of whale-trover tigated
in England, wherein the plaintiffs set forth that after a hard chase of

a whale in the Northem seas, and when indeed they (the plaints} had
sucoseded in harpooning the fish; they were at fast, through peril of
their lives, obliged to forsake not only their tines, but their boat
