abhorred white whale, he pitted himself, all mutitated, against It Alt
that most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees af things

‘al truth with matice init a that cracks the sinews and cakes the

‘rain; all the sublie demonisms of fe and thought, ail evi, to crazy
Ahab| were visibly personified, and made practically assailable in Moby
Dick. He piled upon the whale's white hump the sum of all the general
rage and hate felt by his whole race from Adam down; and then, as if
his chest had been a mortar, he burst his hot heart's shel! upon it

itis not probable that this monomania in hier took its instant ise at
the precise time of his bodily dismemberment, Then, in darting at the
‘monster, knife in hand, he had but given loose to a sudden, passionate,
corporal animosity; and when he received the stoke that tore him, he
probably but fell the agonizing bodily laceration, but nothing more.

‘Yet, when by this coflision forned to turn towards home, and for tong
months of days and weeks, Ahab and anguish fay stretched together in
‘one hammock, rounding in mid winter that dreary, howling Patagonian
‘Cape; then itwas, that his torn body and gashed sou! bied into one
another; and so interfusing, made him mad. That itwas only then, on
the homeward voyage, after the encounter, that the final monomania
seized him, seeme all but certain from the fact that, at intervals

during the passage, he was a raving funatic: and, though unlimbed ofa
eg, yet such vital strength yet turked in his Egyptian chest, and was
moreover intensified by his delirium, that his mates were forced to

Jace him fast, even there, as he sailed, caving in his hammock. in 2
straitjackel, he swung to the mad rockings ofthe gales. And, when
running into more sufferabie tattudes, the ship, with mild stun‘sails
spread, floated across the tranquil tropics, and, to all appearances,

the old man's delirium seemed left behind him with the Cape Hora
swells, and he came forth from his dark den into the blessed light and
air, even then, when he bore that firm, collected front, however pale,
and issued his calm orders once again, and his mates thanked God the
direful madness was now gone; even then, Ahab, in his hidden self,
raved on. Human madness is ofentimes a cunning and most feline thing
When you thint it fed, t may have bul become transfigured inio some
sti subtler form. Ahab’s full nacy subsided not, but deepeningly
‘eontracted: like the unabated Hudson, when that noble Northman flows
narrowly, but unfathomably through the Highland gorge. But, as in his
‘narrow-fowing monomania, not one jot of Ahab's broad madness had been
eft behind: so in that broad madness, not one jot of his great natural
intellect had perished. That before living agent, now became the tiving
instrument, such a furious trope may stand, his special iunacy
stormed his general sanity, and cartied it, and turned all its

concentred cannon upon its own mad mark, so that far from having fost,
hhis strength, Ahab, fo thatone end, did now possess a thousand fold
more potency than ever he had sanely brought fo bear upon any one
reasonable object.

‘This is much: yet Ahab's targer, darker, deeper part remains unhinted.
But vain to popularize profundities, and ail tuth is profound. Winding
