benevolently towed away at his whate the other way, ostentatiousty
slacking outa most unusually tong tow-ling

Presently a breeze sprang up; Stubb feigned to cast off from the whale;
‘hoisting hs boats, the Frenchman soon increased his distance, while
the Pequod slid in between him and Stubb's whale. Whereupon Stubb
‘quickly pulled to the Roating body, and haiting the Pequod to give
notice of his intentions, at once proceeded to reap the fruit of his
‘unrighteous cunning, Seizing his sharp boat-spade, he commenced an
‘excavation in the body, a litte behind the side fin. You would almost
fave thought he was digging a celtar there in the sea; and when at
Jength his spade struck against the gaunt ribs, itwas like turning up

old Roman tes and pottery buried in fal English foam. His boat's crew
were all in high excitement, eagerly helping their chief, and looking

as araious as goid-hunters.

And all the time numberless fowls were diving, and ducking, and
screaming, and yelling, and fighting around them. Stubb was beginning
to took disappointed, especially as the horible nosegay increased,

when suddenly from out the very heart ofthis plague, there stole a

{aint seam of perfume, which flowed through the tide ofbad emells
without being absorbed dy i as one river will flow into and then

along with another, without at ail blending with it for a time.

“rhave it, have ity ofied Stubb, with delight, striking something
{mn the subterranean regions, a pursefa purse

Dropping his spade. he thrust both hands in, and drew out handfuls of
something that tooked tike ripe Windsor soap, or sich mottied old
cheese; very unctuous and savory withal. You might easily dent it with
‘your thumb; itis of a hue between yellow and ash colour. And this,
good friends, is ambergris, worth a gold guinea an ounce ta any
druggist. Some six handfuls were obtained; but more was unavoidably
Jostin the sea, and stil more, perhaps, might have been secured were
Itnot for impatient Ahab’s oud command to Stubb fo desist, and come
‘on board, else the ship would bid them good bye.

‘CHAPTER 92. Amberaris,

Now this ambergris is a very curious substance, and so important as an
article of commerce, that in 4794 a certain Nantucket born Captain

Coffin was examined atthe bar of the English House of Commons on that
Subject. For at that fime, and indeed until a comparatively tate day,

the precise origin of ambergris remained, flke amber Itself, a problem

to the Jearned. Though the word ambergiis is but the French compound
for grey amber, yat the two substances are quite distinct. For amber,
though at times found on the sea-coast, is also dug up in some far

inland soils, whereas ambergiis is never found except upon the sea,
Aesides, amber is a hard, transparent, britile, odosless substance,
