hundred would venture a fowering for them. You may think with what
‘emotions, then, the seamen beheld this old Oriental perched aloft at

such unusual Rours: his turban and the moon, companions in one sky. But
when, after spending his uniform interval there for several successive
nights without uttering a single sound: when, afles ail this silence,

his unearthly voine was heard announcing that silvery, moon-itjet,

every reclining mariner started to his feet as if same winged spirit

hhad lighted in the rigging, and hailed the mortal crew. “There she

blows! Had the trump of judgment blown, they could not have quivered
‘more; yet stil they felt na terror, rather pleasure. For though itwas

a mos! unwonted hour, yet so impressive was the ory, and so detiriously
exciting, that almost every soul on board instinctively desired a

towering,

Walking the deck with quick, side-lunging strides, Ahab commanded the
gallant sails and royais to be set, and every stunsall spread, The
‘best man in the ship must take the helm. Then, with every masthead
‘manned, the piled-up craft rotied down before the wind. The strange,
upheaving, iting tendency of the taffall breeze Ming the hollows

‘of so many sails, made the buoyant, hovering deck to feel tke alr
‘beneath the feet: while stil she rushed along, as iftwo antagonistic
influences were struggling in het—one to mount direct to heaven. the
other to drive yawingly to some horizontal goal, And had you watched
Ahab's face that night, you would have thought that in him also two
different things were wariing. While his one tive teg made lively
‘echoes along the deck, every stroke of his dead limb sounded ke 2
‘pffin-tap. On life and death this old man watked. But though the ship
0 swiflly sped, and though from every eye, like arrows, the eager
glances shot, yet the silvery jet was no more seen that night. Every
sailor swore he saw tance, but not a second time.

‘This midnight-spout had aimost grown a forgotten thing, when, some days
after, of atthe same silent hour, itwas again announced: again it

was desoried by all, but upon making sail to overtake it, once more it
disappeared as iithad never been. And so it served us night after

night, ti no one heeded it but to wonder ati. Mysteriously jetted

into the clear moonlight, or starlight, a8 the case might be

Sisappearing again for ane whole day, or two days, or three; and
somehow seeming at every distinct repetition to be advancing stil

further and further in our van, this solitary jet seemed for ever,

atturing us on

Nor with the iamemorial superstition of their race, and In accordance
with the pretermaturainess, ag it seemed, which in many things invested
the Pequad, were there wanting some of the seamen who swore that
whenever and wherever deseried; at however remote times, or in however
far apart tatitudes and fongitudes, thal unnearable spout was cast by

‘one setfsame whale; and that whale, Moby Dick. For a time, there
‘reigned, too, a sense of peculiar dread at this fitting apparition, as
ifitwere tteacherousty beckoning us on and on, in order that the
