movements. He answered, to go to sea again, in his old vocation. Upon
this, Sold him that whaling was my own design, and infosmed him of my
intention to sail out of Nantucket, as being the most promising port

for an adventurous whaleman to embark from. He at once resotved to
‘accompany me to that island, ship abaard the same vessel, get into the
same watch, the same boat, the same mess with me, in short to share my
every hap; with both my hands in his, boldly dip into the Potluck of

‘both worlds. To ail this | joyously assented: for besides the affection

now felt for Queequeg, be was an experienced harpooneer, and as such,
‘could not fal to be of great usefulness to one, who, ke me, was

wholly ignorant of the mysteries of whating, though well acquainted

with the sea, as known to merchant seamen,

His story being ended with his pipe’s last dying puff, Queequeg
embraced me, pressed his forehead against mine, and blowing out the
fight, we rolled over from each other, this way and that, and very soon
were sleeping

CHAPTER 18, Wheelbarrow,

Next morning, Menday, after disposing of the embalmed head to a barber,
for a block, Isettied my own and comrade’s bit; using. however, my
commade’s money. The grinning landlord, as well as the boarders, scemed
amazingly tickled al the sudden friendship which had sprung up between
‘me and Queequeg—sspecially as Pater Coffin’s cock and bul stories
about him had previously so much alarmed me conceming the very person
whom fnow companied with

We borrowed 3 wheelbarrow, and embarking our things, inoluding my own
poor carpel-bag, and Queequeg’s canvas sack and hammock, away we went
down to “the Moss,” the litle Nantucket packet schooner moored at the

wharf. As we were going along the people stated; not at Queequeg so

‘much —for they were used to seeing cannibals tke him in their

streets, —but at seeing him and me upon such confidential terms. But we
heeded them not, going along wheeting the barrow by turns, and Queequeg
now and then stopping to adjust the sheath on his harpoon barbs. |

asked him why he carried such a troublesome thing with him ashore, and
whether all whaling ships did not find their own harpagns. To this, ia
substance, he replied, that though what [hinted was tue enough. yet

the had 2 particular affection for his own harpoon, because itwas of

assured stuff, well tied in many a mortal combat, and deeply intimate

with the hearts ofwhales, in short, ike many infand reapers and

‘mowers, who go into the farmers’ meadows armed with their own
scyines—though in no wise obliged to furnish them even so, Queequeg,

{or his own private reasons, preferred his own harpoon

Shifting the barrow from my hand to his, he told me a funny story about
the first wheelbarrow he had ever seen. ttwas in Sag Harbor, The
‘owners of his ship, it seems, had lent him one, in which to carry his
