ail the other common perils incident to wandering in the heart of
unknown regions. Meanwhile, the whale he had siruck must algo have been
‘nits travels; no doubt it had thrice circumnavigated the globe,

‘rushing with its Ranks al the coasts of Africa: but to no purpose.

‘This man and this whale again came together, and the one vanquished the
other. [say myself, have known three instances similar to this;

‘thats in two ofthem t saw the whales struck: and, upen the second

attack, saw the hwo irons with the respective marks out in them,

afterwards taken from the dead fish. fn the three-year instance, itso

fell out that Lwas in the boat both times, first and last, and the

{ast time distinctly recognised a peculiar sort of huge mole under the
whale's eye, which [had observed there three years previous. !say

tee years, but fam pretty sure itwas more than that. Here are three
instances, then, which | personally know the truth of, but Ihave heard

of many other instances from persons whose veracity in the matter there
isno good ground to impeach.

Secondly: itis well known in the Sperm Whale Fishery, however ignorant
the world ashore may be oft, that there have been several memorable
‘historical instances where a particular whale in the ocean has been at
distant times and places popularly cognisabfe. Why such a whale became
thus marked was not altogether and originally owing to his bodily
peculiarities as distinguished fram other whales; for however peculiar

in that respect any chance whale may be, they soon put an end to his
peculiarities by killing him, and boiling him down into a peculiarly
‘valuable oil, No: the reason was this: that from the fatal experiences.

ofthe fishery there hung a testible prestige of pediousness about

such a whale as there did about Rinaldo Rinaidini, insomuch that most
shesmen were content to recognise him by merely touching theit
tarpaulins when he would be discovered tounging by them on the sea,
without seeking to cultivate a more intimate acquaintance. Like same
poor devils ashore that happen to know an irascible great man, they
‘make distant unobtrusive salutations to him in the street, fest they
pursued the acquaintance further, they might receive a summary thump

‘or thelr presumption

‘But not only did each of these famous whales enjoy great individual
cetebrity—Nay, you may cail it an oosan-wide renown, not only was he
famous in life and now is immortal in forecastie stories after death,

but he was admitted into ail the rights, privileges, and distinctions:

ofa name; had as much a name indeed as Cambyses or Cazsar. Was it not
50, O Timor Torn! thou famed leviathan, scarred fike an iceberg, who so.
tong did'sturk in the Oriental straits ofthat name, whose spout was

oft seen from the patty beach of Ombay? Was it not so, © New Zealand
Jack! thou terror of all cruisers that crossed their wakes in the

vicinity ofthe Tatioo Land? Was it not so, © Morquan? King af Japan,
whose lofly jet they say at times assumed the seribiance of a snow-white
‘cross against the sky? Was it not so, © Don Miguel! thou Chilian whale,
marked fike an old tortoise with mystic hieroplyphies upon the back! fn
plain prose, here are four whales as weil known to the students of
