atLais?

‘CHAPTER 77. The Great Heidelburgh Tun

Now comes the Baling of the Case. But to comprehend it aright, you must,
mow something of the curious internal stucture of te thing operated
upon.

Regarding the Sperm Whale's head as a solid ablong, you may, an an
inclined plane, sideways divide itinto two quoins,’ whereof the lower

fs the bony stuclure, forming the cranium and jaws, and the upper an
unctuous mass wholly free from bones; its broad forward end forming the
expanded vertical apparent forehead of the whale. At the middie ofthe
forehead horizontally subdivide this upper quoin, and then you have two.
almost equal paris, which before were naturally divided by an intemal
wall ofa thick tendinous substance.

“Quoin is not a Euclidean term. belongs to the pure nautical
‘mathematics, | know not that ithas been defined before. A quoin is 2
solid which differs from a wedge in having Its sharp end formed by the
steep inclination of one side, instead of the mutual tapering of both
sides,

‘The tower subdivided part, called the jank, is one immense honeycomb of
oi, formed by the crossing and recrossing, into ten thousand

inflrated celts, oftough elastic white fibres throughout its whole

extent. The upper part, known as the Case, may be regarded as the great
Heidelburgh Tun of the Sperm Whale. And as that famous great tierce is
‘mystically carved in front, so the whale's vast piaited forehead forms
innumerable strange devices for the emblematical adomment at his,
wondrous tun, Moreover, as that of Heidelburgh was always replenished
with the most excatient of the wines of the Rhenish vatteys, so the tun
ofthe whale contains by far the most precious ofall his oily

vintages; namely, the highly-prized spermaceli, in its absolutely pure,
Jimpid, and odoriferous state, Nor is this precious substance found
uunatloyed in any other part ofthe creature. Though in life itremains
pesfectly Nuid, yet, upon exposure to the aly, after death, itsoon

begins to concrete; sending forth beautiful crystaltine shoots, as when
the first thin deficate ice is just farming in water. A targe whsle's

case generally yields about ive hundred gallons af sperm, though from
unavoidable ciroumstances, considerable of tis spied, leaks, and
dribbles away, oris otherwise irrevocably tost inthe ticklish

business of securing what you can,

Hinow not with what fine and costly material the Heidetburgh Tun was
coated within, but in superlative richness that coating could not
possibly have compared with the silken peart-coloured membrane, ike
the fining ofa fine pelisse, forming the Inner surface ofthe Sperm
Whale's case.
