French, and the Pottsfich of the Germans, and the Macrocephalus of the
Long Words. He is, without doubt, the largest inhabitant of the globe;

the most formidable of ail whales to enounter: the mast majestic in
aspect, and tastly, by far the mast valuzable in commerce; he being the
‘only creature from which that valuable substance, spermaceti, is
‘obtained. All his peculiarities will in many other places, be enlarged
‘upon. tis chiefly with his name that I now have to do. Philotogically
considered, itis absurd. Some centuries ago, when the Sperm whale was
almost wholly unknown in his own proper individuality, and when his oil
‘was only accidentally obtained from the stranded fish, in those days,
spermacet, it would seem, was popularly supposed to be derived from a
efeature identical with the one then known in England as the Greeniand
or Right Whale. ftwas the idea alsa, that this same spermacetl was

that quickening humor of the Greenland Whale which the frst syllable
ofthe word literally expresses. In those times, also, spermacet was
exceedingly scarce, not being used for fight, but onty as an ointment
and medicament. H was only to be had from the druggists as you
nowadays buy an ounce of shubarb. When, as Hoping, in the course of|
time, the true nature of spermaceti became known, its original name was
sill retained by the deaters; no doubt to enhance its value by a

ation go strangely significant of is scarcity. And so the appellation

‘must at last have come to be bestowed upon the whale from which this
spermaceti was really derived.

BOOK. (_Folto_}, CHAPTER & (_Right Whale_)—In one respect this is
the most venerable of the feviathans, being the one first requiady

hunted by man. yields the article cammonty known as whalebone or
baleen: and the oil specially known as “whale oi,” an inferior article

in commerce, Among the fishermen, he is indiscriminately designated by
all the following titles: The Whale; the Greeniand Whale; the Black
Whale; the Great Whale; the True Whale; the Right Whale. There is a
deal of obscurity conceming the identity of the species thus
‘nuititudinousty baptised. What then is the whale, which include in

the second species of my Folios? itis the Great Mysticetus ofthe

English naturalists; the Greenland Whale ofthe English whatemen; the
Baleine Ordinaire ofthe French whalemen; the Growlands Walfish of the
Swedes, Itis the whale which for more than two centuries past has been
‘hunted by the Dutch and English in the Arctic seas; itis the whale

which the American fishermen have long pursued in the Indian ovean, on
the Brazil Banks, on the Nor’ West Coast, and various other paris of

the world, designated by them Right Whale Cruising Grounds.

Some pretend to see a difference between the Greentand whate of the
English and the fight whale of the Americans. But they precisely agree
in all their grand features; nor has there yet heen presented a single
{determinate fact upan which to ground a radical distinction. itis by
endless subdivisions based upon the most inconclusive differences, that
some depariments of natural history become so repellingly inbicate,

‘The right whale will be elsewhere treated of at some fength, with
‘eference to elucidating the sperm whale.
