same with the other parts above mentioned. In various sorts of whales,
they form such irregular combinations, or in the case of any one of
them detached, such an iegular Isolation, as utterly to dely all

‘general methodization formed upon such a basis. On this rock every one
ofthe whate-naturatisis has epi,

‘Butt may possibly be conceived that, in the internal parts of he
whale, in bis anatomy—there, atleast, we shail be able to hit the

‘ight classification, Nay, what thing, for example, is there in the
‘Greenland whale's anatomy more striking than his baleen? Yetwe have
seen that by his baieen itis impossible comectly to classify the
‘Greenland whale. And ifyou descend into the bowels of the various,
teviathans, why there you wit! not find distinctions a ffieth part as
available to the systematizer as those extemal ones already
‘enumerated, What then remains? nothing hut to take hold af the whales
bodily, in their entire iteral volume, and boldly sort them that way,

And this is the Bibflographiical system here adopted: and itis the only
‘one that can possibly succeed, forit alone is practicable. To proosed

BOOK t. (_Fotio_} CHAPTER IV. Hump Back_}—This whale is offen seen
‘on the northern American coast. He has been frequently captured there,
‘and towed into harbor. He has a great pack on him tike a peddier, or

‘you might call him the Elephant and Caste whale. At any rate, the

popular name for him does not suffeiently distinguish him, since the

‘sperm whale also has a hump though a smatier one. Hie oll is not very
valuable. He has baleen. He is the most gamesome and light-hearted of
all the whales, making more gay foam and white water generally than any
other of them,

BOOK |. (_Follo_}, CHAPTER V. (_Razor Back_}—Of this whate title is
known pul his name. thave seen him at a distance of Cape Hor. Of
retiring nature, he eludes both hunters and philosophers, Though no
coward, he as never yet shawn any part of him but his back, which
‘ises in a long sharp ridge. Let him go. !know litle more ofhim, nor
does anybody else,

BOOK |. (_Folio_}, CHAPTER Vi. (_Suiphur Bottom_}—Another retiring
gentleman, with a brimstone belly, doublless got by scraping along the
Tarlarian tes in some of his profounder divings. He is seldom seen:

at east Ihave never seen him exceptin the remoter southern seas, and
then always at too great a distance to study his countenance. He is
never chased: he would sun away with rope-waiks of fine. Prodigies are
told efhim. Adieu, Sulphur Bottom? t can say nothing more that is true
ofye, nor can the oldest Nantucketer.

‘Thus ends BOOK }.(_Folio_}, and now begins BOOK th (_Octavo_}.
OCTAVOES.*—These embrace the whales of middling magnitude, among which

present may de numbered—t. the _Grampus_: It, the _Black Fish
Tithe Narwhale_; IV, the Thrasher_; V.,the_Kiler

 
