‘eats and hoofs: and tumed me to admire the magnanimity ofthe sea
‘which will pesmit no records.

Atthe same foam-fountain, Queequeg seemed to drink and reel with me.
His dusky nosis swelled apart; he showed his fled and pointed

teeth. On, on we flew; and our offing gained, the Moss did homage to

the blast, ducked and dived her bows as a slave before the Sultan
Sideways leaning, we sideways darted. every ropeyam tingling ike a

‘wire; the two tal masts bucking like Indian canes in land tomadoes.

So full ofthis reeling scene were we, as we stood by the plunging

bowsprit, that for some time we did not notice the jeering glances of

the passengers, a iubber-ike assembly, who marveiled that two fellow
beings should be so companionable, as though a white man were anything
‘more dignified than a whitewashed negro. But there were some boobies
and bumpkins there, who, by their intense greenness, must have come
‘rom the heart and centre of all verdure, Queequeg caught one of these
young saptings mimicking him behind his back. Hthought the bumpkin’s
hour ofdoom was come. Dropping his harpoon, the brawny savage caught
‘im in his arms, and by an almost miraculous dexterity and strength,

sent him high up bodily into the ais; then slighty tapping his stern

in mid-somerset, the fellow landed with bursting iungs upon his feet,

while Queequeg, tuming fils back upon him, lighted his tomahawk pipe
and passed ito me for a pall.

~Capting! Capting™ yetted the bumpkin, running towards that offer
“Capting, Capting, here's the devil”

“Hallo, _you_sic/ cried the Captain, a gaunt ab of the sea, statking
up to Queequeg, “what in thunder da you mean by that? Don't you know
‘you might have killed that chap?”

“What him say? said Queequeg, as he mildly tuned to me,

He say,” said |, that you came near kilL-e that man there," pointing
to the stil shivering greenhom.

“Kite oried Queequeg, twisting his tattooed face into an unearthly
expression of disdain, “at him bevy smaii-e fish-e; Queequeg no kille
so smatte fish-2; Queequeg Kilt-e big whaler

“Look you,” mared the Capiain, “TY kite _you_, you cannibal, it
you by any more of your bicks aboard here; so mind your eye.”

But it so happened just then, that twas high time for the Captain to
ind his own eye. The prodigious strain upon the main-sail had parted
the weather-sheet, and the tremendous boom was now flying from side to
side, compietaly sweeping the entire after part ofthe deck. The poor
{allow whom Queequeg had handled so roughly, was swept overboard: all
hands were in a panic; and to attempt snatching al the boom to slay i,
seemed madness. Itflew from right to left, and back again, almost in
