adequately tell. So that_tet us say it again—no dying Chaldee or Greek
‘had higher and holier thoughts than those, whose mysterious shades you
saw creeping over the face of poor Queequeg, as he quietly fay in his,
swaying hammock, and the rolling sea seemed gently racking hint to his
final rest, and the ocean's invisible Rood-tide lifted him higher and

bigher towards his destined heaven.

Not a man of the crew but gave him up: and, as for Queequeg himself,
what he thought of his case was forcibly shown by a cusious favour ne
asked. He called one to him in the grey morning waich, when the day was
Just breaking, and taking his hand, said that while in Nantucket he had
‘chanced to see cerain litle canoes of dark wood, like the rich

‘war-wood of his native isle, and upon inquiry, he had feamed that alt
whhalemen who died in Nantucket, were faid in those same dark cances,
and that the fancy of being so taid had much pleased him, for it was

rot unlike the custom of his own race, wha, after embalming a dead
warrior, stretched him out in his canoe, and so feft him to be floated

away to the starry archipelagoes: for not only do they betieve that the
stars are isies, but that far beyond ail visible horizons, their own

‘mild, uncontinented seas, interfiow with the blue heavens; and so form
the white breakers ofthe mitky way. He added, that he shuddered at the
thought of being buried in his hammock, acnording to the usual
sea-custom, tossed like something vile to the death-devouring sharks.

No: he desired a canoe lke those of Nantucket, all the more congenial

to him, being a whaleman, that like a whale-boat these coffin-canoes
were without a keel; though that involved but unceriain steering, and
much tee-way adown the dim ages.

Now, when this strange cirumstance was made known aft, the carpenter
was at once commanded fo do Queeques's bidding, whatever it might
Include. There was some heathenish, coffin-caloured old jumber aboard,
‘which, upon a jong previous voyage, had been cut from the aboriginal

‘groves ofthe Lackaday islands, and from these dark planks the coftia

was recommended to be made. No sooner was the carpenter apprised of the
‘order, than taking his ule, he forthwith with aff the indifferent

promptitude of his character, proceeded inio the forecastie and took
‘Queequeg's measure with great accuracy, regularly chatking Queaqueg's
person ashe shifted the rule

“Ant poor fellow! he'll have to die now,” ejaculated the Long Island
sailor.

‘Going te his vice-bench, the carpenter for convenience sake and general
reference, now transferringly measured on it the exact length the

‘ooffin was to be, and then made the transfer permanent by culting two
notches at its extremities. This dane, he marshalled the planks and his
tools, and to work,

When the last nail was driven, and the tid duly planed and ftied, he
lightly shouldered the coffin and went forward with it, inquiring
