Astor the white shark, the white afiding ghostiiness of repose in that
creature, when beheld in his ordinary moods, strangely taties with the
same quality in the Potar quadruped. This pecutianty is most vividly

bit by the French in the name they bestow upon that fish. The Romish
‘mass for the dead begins with “Requiem etemnanr’ (eternal rest), whens
_Requiem_denominating the mass itself, and any other funeral music,
Now, in allusion to the white, silent stiness of death in this shark,

and the mild deadtiness of his habits, the French call him _Requin_.

Bethink thee of the albatross, whence come thase clouds of spiritual
wonderment and pale dread, in which that white phantom sails in al
imaginations? Not Coleridge frst threw that spell; but God's great,
unflattering faureate, Nature.”

*Hremember the first albatross I ever saw. It was during a prolonged
gale, in waters hard upon the Antarctic seas. From my forenoon watch
below, | ascended to the overciouded deck: and there, dashed upon the
‘main hatches, tsaw a regal, feathery thing of unspotted whiteness, and
with a hooked, Roman bill sublime. Atintervais, it ached forth its

vast archangel wings, as itto embrace some holy ark, Wondrous
futerings and throbbings shook it, Though bodily unharmed, it uttered
cries, as some king's ghost in supernatural distress. Through its
inexpressibie, strange eyes, methought I peeped to secrets which took
hold of God. As Abraham before the angels, tbowed mysett the white
thing was so wile, its wings so wide, and in those for ever exited
waters, Fhad fost the miserable warping memories of traditions and of
towns. Long I gazed at that prodigy of plumage. cannot tei can only
‘hint, the things that darted through me then. But atiast fawoke; and
turning, asked a saifor what bird was this. A goney, he replied. Ganey!
never had heard that name before: is it eonceivable that this glorious
thing is utterly unknown to men ashore! never But some time after, |
learned that goney was some seaman's name for albatross, So that by no
possibility could Coleridge's wild Rhyme have had aught to do with
those mystical impressions which were mine, when Fsaw that bird upon
‘our deek. For neither had I then read the Rhyme, nor knew the bird to
be an albatross. Yel, in saying this, Fdo but indirectly bumish a

lite brighter the noble merit of the poem and the poet.

| asses, then, that in the wondrous body whiteness of the bird
chiefly lurks the secret of the spell, tuth the more evinoed in

this, hat by a solecism of terms there are birds called grey
albatrosses; and these have frequently seen, but never with such
‘emotions as when t beheld the Antarctic fowl

But how had the mystic thing been caught? Whisper it not, and twill
tell with a treacherous hook and tine, as the fowl floated on the sea
Atlast the Captain made a posiman ofit; tying a fettered, feather
tally round its neck, with the ship's time and place; and then fetting
itescape. But | doubt not, that feathem tally, meant for man, was.
taken off in Heaven, when the white fowl Rew to join the wing-folding,
