wheeling like trained chargers in the fleid: the boats for a while
eluded him; though, at tines, but by a plank’s breadth; whie ail the
time, Ahab’s unearthly slogan tore every olhier ery but his to shreds.

But at last in his untraoeable evolutions, the White Whale so crossed
‘and fecrossed, and ina thousand ways entangled the slack of the three
sines now fast to him, that they foreshostened, and, of themselves,

warped the devoted boats towards the planted irons in him: though now
for a moment the whale drew aside a litte, as ite rally for a more
‘tremendous charge. Seizing that opportunity, Ahab frst paid out more

fine: and then was rapidiy hauling and jerking in upon it again—hoping
that way to disenoumber itof some snaris—when {ola sight more savage
than the embattied teeth of sharks!

‘Caught and twisted—cortscrewed in the mazes ofthe fine, loose harpoon.
‘and lances, with al their bristing baths and points, came flashing

‘and dripping up to the chacks in the bows of Ahab's boat, Only ane

thing could be done. Seizing the boal-knife, he critically reached
‘within—through—and then, without_the rays of steel: dragged in the line
beyond, passed it, inboard, to the bowsman, and then, twice sundering
the rope near the chocks—dropped the intercepted fagot of steel inta

the sea; and was afi fast again. That instant, the White Whale made a
sudden tush among the remaining tangles of the other ines; by so

doing, imesietibly dragged the more involved boats of Stubb and Flask
towards his flukes; dashed them together like two rofling husks on a
surf-beaten beach, and then, diving down into the sea, disappeared in 2
bailing maeistrom, in which, for a space, the odorous cedar chips of

the wrecks danced round and round, fike the grated nutmeg in a swifty
stirred how! of punch.

While the two crews were yet circing in the waters, teaching out after
the revolving fine-tubs, oars, and other Roating furniture, while

slope litle Flask bobbed up and down tike an emply vial, twitching

his legs upwards to escape the dreaded jaws of sharks; and Stub was

tustily singing out for same one to ladle him up; and while the old

‘man's ine—now parting—sdmitted of his pulling into the creamy pool to
rescue whom he could —in that wild simultaneousness ofa thousand
concreted periis,—Ahab's yet unstricken boat seemed drawn up towards
Heaven by invisible wires, —as, arrow-like, shooting perpendicularly

‘rom the sea, the White Whale dashed his broad forehead against its

bottom, and sent, turning over and over, into the ais it fell

‘again—gunwale downwards—and Ahab and his men struggled out from under
iilike seals from a sea-side cave.

‘The first uprising mamentum of the whale—modilying its direction as he
struck the surface—involuntafly taunched him aiong it, to a tite
distance from the centre ofthe destruction he had made, and with his,
‘back to i, he now lay for a moment slowly feeling with his Rukes from
side to side; and whenever a stray oar, bitaf plank, the feast chip or
crumb of the boats touched his skin, his tal swiftly drew back, and
