the warring elements at work; and the thunders that rolfed away from.
offhis swarthy brow, and the light feaping from his eye, made ail his,
simple hearers took on him with 2 quick fear that was strange to them,

‘There now came a lull in his took, as he silently turned over the
Jeaves of the Book once more; and, at fast, standing motionless, with
closed eyes, for the moment, seemed communing with God and himsett

‘But again he leaned ovar towards the people, and bowing his head lowly,
with an aspect ofthe deepest yet mantiest humility, he spake these
words:

“Shipmates, God has laid but one hand upon you: both his hands press
upon me. Ihave fead ye by whal murky light may be mine the lesson that
Jonah teaches to all sinners; and therefore to ye, and stil more to

‘me, for tam a greater sinner than ye. And now how gladly would !come
down from this mast-head and sit on the hatches there where you sit,

‘and listen as you listen, while some one afyou reads _me_thatother

‘and more awful tesson which Jonah teaches to _me_. as a pilot ofthe
fiving God. How being sn anointed pilot-prophel, or speaker of true

things, and biden by the Lord to sound those unwelcome truths in the
ears of a wicked Nineveh, Jonah, appalled al the hostiity he should

‘aise, fled from his mission, and sought fo escape his duly and his God

by taking ship at Joppa. But God is everywhere, Tarshish he never
seached. As we have seen, God came upon him in the whale, and swallowed
‘him down to tiving guifs of doom, and with swift slantings tore him

along into the midst ofthe seas,’ where the eddying depths sucked him
ten thousand fathoms down, and ‘the weeds were wrapped about his head,
and ail the watery world of woe bowled over him. Yet even then beyond
the reach of any plummet—out of the belly of heil'—when the whale
grounded upon the ocean's ulmost bones, even then, God heard the
‘enguiphed, repenting prophet when he cried. Then God spake unto the
fish; and from the shuddering cold and blackness of the sea, the whale
‘came breeching up towards the warm and pleasant sun, and ail the
delights of air and earth; and ‘vomited out Jonah upon the dry land:

when the word of the Lord came a second time; and Jonah, bruised and
beaten—his ears, tke two sea-sheits, stil multiudinously murmuring

ofthe ovean—Jonah did the Almighty’s bidding. And what was that,
shipmates? To preach the Truth to the face of Falsehood! That was i

“This, shipmates, this is that other lesson; and woe to that pilot of
the tiving God who sights it Woe to him whom this world charms from
‘Gospel duty! Woe to fim who seeks to pour oil upon the waters when God
‘has brewed them into a gale! Woe tn him who seeks to please rather than
{0 appall Woe to him whose good name is mose to him than goodness! Woe
to him who, in this word, courts not dishonor! Woe to fim who would

not be true, even though to be false wese saivation! Yea, woe to hima

who, as the great Pilot Paul has it, while preaching to others is,

himself a castaway
