“Cough he damned! Pass along that return bucket”

“There again—there it is!—it sounds tike two or three sleepers turning

“Carambat have done, shipmate, will ye? i's the three soaked bienuits
ye eat far supper turing aver inside of ye—nothing efse. Look to the
bucket

“Say what ye will, shipmate; Ive sharp ears.”

“aye, you are the chap, ain'tye, that heard the hum of the ald
‘Quakeress's knitting-needies fity miles at sea from Nantucket, you're
the chap”

“Grin away; we'll see what tums up. Hark ye, Cabaco, there Is somebody
down in the afler-hoid that has not yet been seen on deck, and F

suspect our old Mogul knows something af it too. theard Stubb tell

Flask, one morning waich, that there was something of that sort in the
wind.”

“Tight the bucket”

(CHAPTER 44, The Chart.

Had you followed Captain Ahab down into his cabin after the squall that
took place on the night succeeding that wild ratification of his,

purpose with his crew, you would have seen him go to a locker in the
‘ransom, and bringing out a iarge wrinkled roll of yellowish sea

charls, spread them before him on his serewed-down table. Then seating
‘nimseif before it, you would have seen him intently study the various
lines and shadings which there mat his eye; and with slow but steady
pencil trace additional courses aver spaces that before were blank. At
Inienvats, he would refer to piles of oid tog-books beside him, wherein
were set down the seasons and ptaces in which, on various former
voyages of various ships, sperm whales had been captured or seen,

White thus employed, the heavy pewler tamp suspended in chains over his
‘head, continually socked with the motion of the ship, and for ever

threw shifting gleams and shadows of fines upon his wrinkled brow, ti!
itatmost seemed that while he himsetf was marking aut fines and

courses on the wrinkled charts, some invisibie pencil was alsa tracing
fines and courses upon the deeply marked chast of his forehead,

But it was not this night in particular that, in the solitude of his
eabin, Ahab thus pondered over his charis. Almost every night they were
brought out alwst every night some pencil marks were effaced, and
others were substituted. For with the charis ofall four aceans before
jim, Ahab was threading a maze of currents and eddies, with a view to
