‘Tashiego stood in the bows, He was full ofthe fre ofthe hunt. He
hated Pip for a pottroon. Snatching the boat-knife from its sheath, he
suspended its sharp edge over the fine, and turning towards Stubb,
exclaimed interrogatively, “Cut?” Meantime Pip's blue, choked face

plainly looked, Do, for God's sake! Ail passed in a flash. In fess than
half a minute, this entire thing happened.

“Damn him, cut” roared Stubb; and so the whale was lost and Pip was.
saved

So soon as he recovered himself, the poor litle negro was assailed by
yells and execrations from the crew. Tranquilly permiting these

imeguiar cursings to evaporate, Stubb then in a plain, business-ike,

‘but stil haif humorous manner, cursed Pip officially: and that done,
unofficially gave him much wholesome advice. The substance was, Never
jump from a boat, Pip, except—but aif the rest was indefinite, as the
soundest advice ever is. Now, in general, _Stick to the boat_, is your

‘rue motto in whaling: but cases wit somelimes happen when Leap from
the boat_, is sti! better. Moreover, as if perceiving at fast that iT

‘he should give undiluted conscientious advice to Pip, he would be
feaving bir too wide a margin to jump in for the future; Stubb suddenty
dropped ail advice, and concluded with a peremptory command, “Stick to
the boat, Pip, or hy the Lord, fwon't pick you up if you jump; mind

thal. We can't afford to tose whales by the likes of you, a whale would

se} for thirty times what you would, Pip, in Alabama. Bear that in

mind, and don'tjump any more.” Hereby perhaps Stub indirectly hinted,
that though man foved his fellow, yet man is a money-making animal,
‘which propensity too offen interferes with his benevolence.

Butwe are all in the hands of the Gods; and Pip jumped again. twas
‘under very similar circumstances ta the Arst performance: bit this

time he did not breast out the tine; and hence, when the whale started
to run, Pip was teft behind on the sea, ke a humid traveller's

trunk, Alas! Stubb was fut foo true to his word. ftwas 2 beautiful,
bounteous, biue day; the spangled sea caim and cool, and Naty
stretching away, al round, to the horizon, fike gold-beater's skin
hammered out to the extremest, Bobbing up and down in thal sea, Pip's
‘bon head showed like a head of cloves. No boat-knife was filed when
‘he fell so rapidly astem, Stubb's inexorable back was tumed upon him:
and the whale was winged. In three minutes, a whole mie of shoreiess
‘ocean was behveen Pip and Stubb. Cut from the centre of the sea, poor
Pip turned his orisp, curling, black head to the sun, another fonely
castaway, though the lofliest and the brightest

Now, in calm weather, to swintin the open ocean is as easy to the
praclised swimmer as to ride in a spring-cartiage ashore. But the awful
fonesomeness is intolerable. The intense concentration of seifin the
middie of such a heartiess immensity, my God! who can tell it? Mark,

how when sailors in a dead catm bathe in the open sea—mark how closely
they hug their ship and onty coast along her sides.
