‘me, so the sunset soothed, No more. This lovely tight, tights not
‘me: all joveliness is anguish to me, sinoe can ne'er enjoy. Gified

with the high perception, Hack the low, enjoying power: damned, most
subtly and most matignantiy! damned in the midst of Paradise! Good
ight—good night (_waving his hand, he moves from the window_}

“Twas not so hard a task. | thought to find one stubborn, at the feast
‘but my one cogged circle fis into all their various wheels, and they
revolve. Or, iTyou will, ike so many ant-iis of powder, they afl

stand before me; and F their match. Oh, hard! that to fire others, the

‘match itseif must needs be wasting! What I've dared, I've willed; and

what f've willed, !W dot They think me mad—Starbuck does; but frm
demoniao, tam madness maddened! That wild madness that's only calm to
comprehend iiseiff The prophecy was that | should be dismembered,
_and—Aye! Host this teg. !now prophesy that Fwil dismember my
dismemberer. Now, then, be the prophet and the fullifer one. That's

‘more than ye, ye great gods, ever were. Haugh and hoot at ye, ye

cricket players, ye pugilists, ye deaf Burkes and blinded Bendigoest t

‘will not say as schootboys do to bullies —Take some one of your own

size; don't pommel _me!_No, ye've knocked me down, and | am up again:
‘but _ye_ have run and hidden. Come forth from behind your cotton bags!
have no tong gun to reach ye. Come, Ahab's compliments to ye; come
and see ifye ean swerve me, Swerve me? ye cannot swerve me, else ye
swerve yourselves! man has ye there. Swerve me? The path to my fixed
purpose is iaid with iron rails, whereon my soul is grooved to run,

‘Over unsounded gorges, through the sifled hearts of mountains, under
torents’ beds, unersingly [rush! Naught’s an obsiacie, naught’s an

angle to the ison way!

‘CHAPTER 38. Dusk,
_By the Mainmast; Starbuck leaning against it.

My soul is more than matched; she's overmanned, and by a madman!
Insufferable sting, that sanity should ground arms on such a fleidt But

Ihe drilled deep down, and blasted afl my reason out of met I think +

see his impious end; but fee! that F must help him to it. Wilf il)

|. the ineffable thing has tied me fo him: tows me with a cable Ihave

‘Ro knife to cut. Horrible old man! Who's over him, he cries:—aye, he
would be a democrat to all above; look, how he fords itover ail below!
‘Oh! F plainly see my miserable office —to obey, rebelling: and worse
yet, to hate with touch of pity! For in his eyes tread some lurid woe
would shivel me up, had Fit. Yet is there hope. Time and tide flow

wide, The hated whale has the round watery world to swim in, as the
‘small gold-fish has its glassy globe. His heaven-insulting purpose, God
may wedge aside. F would up heart, were it not lke lead. But my whole
slock’s run down; my heart the all-controlling weight, [nave no key to
‘again
