Starbuck rouses from his quielude, takes a few tums atong the planks,
and, after a grave peep into the binnacie, says, with some touch of
pleasantness, “Dinner, Mr. Stubb,” and descends the soute. The second
Emir ounges about the rigging awhile, and then stightly shaking the
main brace, to see whether itwill be all right with that important

rope, he Hkewise takes up the old burden, and with a rapid “Dinner,

IMr. Flask,” follows after his predecessors.

‘But the thitd Enur, now seeing himself al atone on the quarter-deck,
seems to fee! relieved from some curious restraint for. tipping all

sorts of knowing winks in all sorts of directions, and kicking off his
shoes, he sires into a sharp but noiseless squall ofa hompipe sight
over the Grand Turk's head; and then, by a dexterous sleight, pitching
‘his cap up into the mizentop for a shelf, he goes down rollicking so

far at least as he remains visible from the deck, reversing ail other
processions, by bringing up the Tear with music. But ere stepping into
the cabin doorway below, he pauses, ships a new faoe altogether, and,
then, independent, hilarious lite Flask enters King Ahab's presence,
in the character of Abjectus, oF the Stave.

tis not the least among the strange things bred by the intense
artifciainess of sea-usages, thal while in the open air of the deck,

some officers will, upon provocation, bear themselves boldly and

detyingly enough towards their commander, yet, en to one, tet those

very officers the next mament go down to their customary dianerin that
same cornmander's cabin, and straightway their inoffensive, sot to say
deprecatory and humble air towards him, as he sits at the head of the

table; this is marvetlous, sometimes most comical. Wherefore this
difference? A problem? Perhaps not. To have been Belshazzar, King of
Babylon; and to have been Belshazzar, not haughiily but courteously,
‘therein certainty must have been some touch of mundane grandeur, But he
‘who in the rightly regal and intelligent spirit presides over his own

piivale dinner-table of invited guests, thal man's unchallenged power

and dominion af individual influence for the time; that man's royalty

of slate transcends Belshazzar's, for Belshazzar was not the greatest.

Who has but once dined his friends, has tasted what itis to he Caesar.

tis a witchery of social czarship which there Is no withstanding.

Now, ifto this consideration you superadd the official supremacy of 3
ship-master, then, by inference, you will derive the cause of that
peculiarity of sea-ffe just mentioned.

‘Over his ivoryinlald table, Ahab presided like a mute, maned sea-tion
‘on the white coral beach, surrounded by his warlike Dut stil
deferential cubs. In his own proper turn, each officer waited to be
served, They were as litle children before Ahab: and yet, in Ahab,
there seemed not to lurk the smailest social arrogance. With one mind,
their intent eyes all fastened upon the old man’s knife, as he carved
the chief dish before him. Fdo not suppose that forthe world they
would have profaned that moment with the slightest observation, even
‘upon so neutral a topic as the weather. No! And when reaching out his,
