‘more than three hours out of the twenty-four, and he don't sleep then
Didn't that Dough-Boy, the steward, tell me that of a morning he always
finds the old man's hammock clothes all rumpled and tumbled, and the
sheets down at the foot, and the coverlid almost tied into knots, and

the plow a sort of rightful hot, as though a baked brick had been on

it? A hot old mant f guess he’s got what some forks ashore calla
conscience: I's a kind of Tic-Dolly-row they say—worse nor a

toothache. Well, weil; don't know what itis, but the Lord keep me

‘rom catching it. He's fal ofriddies; I wonder what he goes into the

after hold for, every night, as Dough-Boy tells me he suspects; what's

‘hat for, F should like fo know? Who's made appointments with him in

the hold? Ain't that queer, now? But there's no telling, it's the old
‘game—Here goes for a snooze. Damn me, it's worth a fellow's while to be
‘bom into the word, ifonly to fall right asleep. And now that I think

fit, that's about the frst thing babies do, and that's a sort of

‘queer, 100. Damn me, but ail tings are queer, come to think of ‘em.

ut that's against my principles. Think not, is my eleventh

‘commandment: and sleep when you can, is my twelfthSo here goes again.
But how's thal? didn't he call me a dog? blazes! he called me ten times

a donkey, and piled a Jot ofjackasses on top of _that_He might as.

well have kicked me, and done with it, Maybe he _did_Kick me, and t
didn't observe it, was so taken aif aback with his brow, somehow. It
flashed tike a bleachad bone, What the devil's the matter with me? F

don’t stand right on my legs. Coming afoul of that old man has a sort
ofturned me wrong side out. By the Lord, must have been dreaming,
though—How? how? how?—but the anly way's fo slash it, so here goes to
‘hammock again; and in the moming, "i see how this plaguey Juggling
thinks over by daylight”

‘CHAPTER 80, The Pipe.

When Stubb had departed, Ahab siood for a while leaning over the
bulwarks; and then, as had been usual with him offate, calling a
sailor ofthe watch, he sent him below for his ivory stool, and also

his pipe. Lighting the pipe af the binnacie {amp and planting the stoot
on the weather side ofthe deck, he sat and smoked,

in old Norse times, the thrones of the sea-loving Danish kings were
fabricated, saith tradition, of the tusks of the narwhale, How could
‘one look at Ahab then, seated on that ipod of bones, without
‘bethinking him of the royaity it symbolized? For a Khan of the plank,
and a king of the sea, and a great lord of Leviathans was Ahab,

Some moments passed, during which the thick vapor came from his mouth
{in quick and constant puffs, which blew back again into his face. “How
now." he salloquized at fast, withdrawing the tube, “this smoking no
fonger soathes. Oh, my pipet hard must it go with me ifthy charm be

gone! Here have Ibeen unconsciously tolling, not pleasuring—aye, and
ignorantly smoking to windward ail the white; to windward, and with
