self'same ship; and were it not for the teltate boats and try-works,
‘you would ail Dut swear you trod some silent merchant vessel, with 2

‘most sorupustously neat commander. The unmanufactured sperm olf
possesses a singularly cleansing virtue. This is the reason why the

decks never took so white as just afer what they call an affair of

oil, Besides, from the ashes of the bumed soraps of the whale, a

potent ive is readily made: and whenever any adhesiveness from the hack
of the whale remains clinging to the side, thal ive quickly

externrinates it, Hands go difigently atong the bulwarks, and with

buckets ofwater and rags restore them to their full idiness. The soot

is brushed from the lower daging. All the numerous implements which
have been in use are likewise faithfully cleansed and put away. The

great haich is scrubbed and placed upon the try-works, completely

‘iding the pots; every cask is out of sight, all tackles are coiled in

unseen nooks; and when by the combined and simultaneous industry of
almost the entire ship's company, the whole of this conscientious duty

{is at last concluded, then the crew themsaives proceed to their own
ablutions; shift themeetves front top to toe; and nally issue to the
immaculate deck, fresh and all aglow. as bridegrooms new-Jeaped from
out the daintiest Holand

Now, with elated step, they pace the planks in twos and threes, and
humorously discourse of pastors, sofas, carpets, and fine cambrics;
propose fo mat the deck; think of having hanging to the top: object not
to taking tea by moonfight on the piazza of the forecastle. To hint to
such musked mariners of oil, and bone, and blubber, were fitie short
of audacity. They know not the thing you distantty allude to. Away, and
bring us napkinst

But mark: aloft there, at the three mast heads, stand three men intent
‘on spying out more whales, which, iTeaugh,infalibly will again soil
the old vaken furniture, and drop at ieast one small grease-spot
somewhere. Yes; and many is the time, when, after the severest
uninterrupted labors, which know no night, continuing straight through
‘or ninely-ix hours; when from the boat, where they have swelled their
wrists with all day cowing on the Line,—they only step to the deck to
‘carry vast chains, and heave the heavy windlass, and cut and slash,
yea, and in their very sweatings to be smoked and bummed anew by the
‘combined fires of the equatorial sun and the equatorial ty-works:

when, on the heel ofall this, they have finally bestireed themselves.

to cleanse the ship, and make a spotless dairy room of it; manyis the
time the poor feliows, just buttoning the necks of their clean frocks,

are statited by the ory of “There she blows!” and away they fy to

fight another whale, and go through the whole weary thing again. Obf my
friends, but this is man-kiling! Yet this is fife. For hardly have we
mortals by tong toltings extracted from this world's vast bulk its

‘small but valuable sperm: and then, with weary patience, cleansed
ourselves from its deilements, and teamed to five here in clean
tabemacies of the soul, hardly is this done, when—_There she
blows!_—the ghost is spouted up, and away we sail to fight some other

 

 
