Nos would difference of country make any very essential difference,
thats, so long as both parties speak one language. ass the case

with Americans and English. Though, to be sure, from the small number
of English whalers, such meetings do not very offen occur, and when
they do ooour there is too apt to be a sort of shyness between them:

{or your Englishman is rather reserved, and your Yankee, he does not
fancy that sort of thing in anybody but himself. Besides, the English
whalers sometimes affect a kind of metropotitan euperiosty over the
American whalers; regarding the tong, fean Nantuckster, with his
nondescript provincialisms, as a sort of sea-peasant. Bul where this
superionily in the English whalemen does really consist, it would be
hard to say, seeing that the Yankees in one day, collectively, kilt

‘more whales than ail the English, collectively, in ten years. But this,

is a harmless iit foible in the English whate-hunters, which the
Nantuckster does not take much to heart probably, because he knows
that he has a few foibles himself.

So, then, we see that of all shins separately sailing the sea, the
whalers have most reason to be soolable—and they are so. Whereas, some
merchant ships crossing each other's wake in the mid-Atlantic, will
pflentimes pass on without so much as a single word of recognition,
‘mutually cutting each other on the high seas, tike a brace of dandies

in Broadway, and all the time indulging, perhaps, in finical criticism

upon each other's rig. As for Men-of War, when they chance to meet at

‘sea, they frst go through such a string of silly bowings and,

scrapings, such a ducking of ensigns, that there does not seem to be

‘much right-down hearty good-will and brotherly love about tat all. As
touching Slave-ships meeting, why, they are in such a prodigious hurry
they sun away from each other as soon as possible. And as for Pirates,
when they chance fo cross each other's cross-bones, the frst hail

ig —"How many skulls?"—the same way that whalers hail—"How many
barrels?” And that question once answered, pirates straightway steer

apart, for they are infemal villains on both sides, and don'tiike to

see overmuch of each other's villanous ‘ikenesses,

 

But look at the godly, honest, unostentatious, hospitable, sociable,
‘free-and-easy whaler! What does the whaler do when she meets another
whaler in any sort of decent weather? She has a”_Gam_” thing so
utterly unknown to aif other ships that they never heard of the name
event, and if by chance they should hear ofit, they only grin ati

and repeat gamesome stuff about “spouters” and “blubber-boilers” and
such tke pretty exclamations. Why itis that all Merchant-seamen, and
algo all Pirates and Man-of-War's men, and Slave-ship sailors, cherish
such a scornful feeling towards Whate-ships; this is a question it

would be hard to answer. Because, in the case ofpirates, say, ! should
like to know whether thal profession of theirs has any peculiar glory
about it. It sometimes ends in uncommon elevation, indeed: but only at
the gallows. And besides, when man is elevated in that odd fashion,

the has no proper foundation far his superior altitude. Hence, |

conclude, that in boasting himsaif to be high lifted above a whaleman,
