‘more, a thousand fathoms in the sea, he carries a surplus stock of
vitality in him, just as the camel erossing the waterless desert

carries a surplus supply of drink for fulure use in its four
supplementary stomachs, The anatomical fact ofthis fabyrinth is
indisputable; and that the supposition founded upon itis reasonable
and true, seems the sore cogent fo me, when | consider the otherwise
inexplicable obstinacy ofthat leviathan in _having his spoutings out_,
2s the fishermen phrase it This is what fmean. unmofested, upon
‘ising to the surface, the Sperm Whale wil continue there for a period
of time exactly uniform with ail his other unmolested risings. Say he
slays eleven minutes, and jets seventy times, that is, espires seventy
breaths; then whenever he rises again. he wil be sure to have his
seventy breaths over again, to a minute. Now, iTafter he fetches a few
breaths you alarm him, so that he sounds, he will be always dodging up
again to make good his regular allowance of ais. And not iil those
seventy breaths are told, will he finally go down to stay out his ful
term below. Remark, however, that in different individuals these rates
are different; but in any one they are alike. Now, why should the whale
thus insist upon having hie spoutings out, unless itbe to replenish

hia teservair of air, ere descending for good? How obvious isi, too,
that this necessity for the whale's rising exposes him to all the fatal
hazatds of the chase. For nat by hook or by nat could this vast
eviathan be caught, when sailing a thousand fathoms beneath the
suntight. Not so much thy skil, then, O hunter, as the great

necessities that strike the victory to thet

Inman, breathing Is incessantly going on—one breath only serving for
‘wo or three pulsations, so that whatever other business he has to
attend to, waking or sieeping, breathe he must, or die he wif. But the
‘Sperm Whale only breathes about one seventh or Sunday of his time.

thas been said that the whale onty breathes through his spout-hole;
‘fit could truthfully be added that his spouts are mixed with water,

then Fopine we should be furnished with the reason why his sense of
‘smell seems objiterated in him for the only thing about him that st

ail answers to his nose is that identical spout-hole; and being so
clogged with two elements, it could not be expected to have the power
of smelting. But owing to the mystery of the spout—whether it be water
‘or whether ite vapor—no absolute certainty can as yetbe arrived st
on this head, Sure itis, nevertheless, that the Sperm Whale has no
proper olfactories. But what does he want of them? No roses, no
violets, no Cologne-water in the sea

Furthermore, as his windpipe solely opens into the tube of his spouting
‘canal, and a6 that fong canal—tike the grand Erie Canalis furnished
with a sort af focks {that open and shut for the downward retention of

air or the upward exclusion of water, therefore the whale has no voice,
‘unless you insult him by saying, thal when he so strangely mumbles, he
talks through his nose. But then again, what has the whale to say?
Seldom have | known any profound being that had anything to say to this
