He dropped and fell away from himself for a moment; then tifting his
face to them again, showed a deep joy in his eyes, as he cried out with
a heavenly enthusizem,—"But oh! shipmates! on the starboard hand of
every woe, there is a eure detight, and higher the top of that aetight,

than the bottom of the woe is deep. ts not the main-tuck higher than
the keison is iow? Detight is to him—a far, far upward, and inward
delight_who against the proud gods and commodores of this earth, ever
stands forth his own inexorable self. Delightis to him whose strong
arms yet support him, when the ship of this base treacherous world has.
‘gone down beneath him. Detightis to him, who gives no quarter in the
‘euth, and tls, burns, and destroys all sin though he pluck it out

‘rom under the robes of Senators and Judges. Delight —top-gattant
dotightis to fim, who acknowledges no law or ford, but the Lord his
Gad, and is only @ patriot to heaven. Delight isto him, whom all the
waves of the hillows of the seas of the boisterous moh ean never shake
from this sure Keet of the Ages. And etermnat detight and deticiousness
‘will be fis, who coming to Jay him down, can say with his finat
‘breath Father!—chiefty known to me by Thy fod—mortal or immortal,
here Idle. thave striven to be Thine, more than to be this world's,

oF mine own, Yet this is nothing: [leave eternity to Thee; for what is,

‘man that he should five out the lifetime of his God?”

He said no more, but stowly waving a benediction, covered his face with
‘his hands, and so remained kneeting, it all the people had departed,
‘and he was feft alone in the place,

CHAPTER 40, A Bosom Friend,

Returning to the Spouter-inn from the Chapel, Hound Queequeg there
quite stone; he having tefl the Chapel before the benediction some
time. He was sitting on a bench before the fire, with his feet on the
stove hearth, and in one hand was holding close up to hie face that
litle negro idol of his; peering hard into its face, and with a

Jactcknife gently whittling away at ts nose, meanwhile hurming to
‘himself in his heathenish way.

But being now interrupted, he put up the image; and pretty soon, going

to the table, took up a large book there, and placing iton his tap

began counting the pages with deliberate regularity, al every fiftieth
page—as | fancied—stapping a moment, looking vacantly around fim, and
Giving utterance to a tong-drawn gurgting whistle of astonishment. He
‘would then begin again al the next fiy; seeming to commence at number
‘one each time, as though he could not count more than fifty, and itwas
ony by such a large number of fifties being found together, that his
astonishment at the multitude of pages was excited.

‘With much interest I sat watching him. Savage though he was, and
hideously marred about the face—at least to my taste—-his countenance
yet had a something in itwhich was by no means disagreeable. You
