been cursory mentioned. The edges of these bones are fringed with
hairy fibres, through which the Right Whale stains the water, and in

whose intricacies he retains the small fish, when openmouthed he goes
through the seas of brit in feeding time. In the central blinds of

bone, as they stand in their natural order, there are certain curious

marks, curves, hollows, and ridges, whereby some whalemen calculate the
creature's age, as the age of an oak by its circular rings. Though the
certainty of this criterion is far rom demonstrable, yet ithas the

savor of analogical probability. At any rate, ifwe yield to i, we

‘must grant far greater age to the Right Whale than at first glance

will seem reasonable.

Inold times, there seem to have prevailed the most curious fancies
concerning these blinds. One voyager in Purchas calls them the wondrous
“whiskers” inside ofthe whale’s mouth,’ another, “hogs' bristles": 9

third old gentleman in Hackluyt uses the folowing elegant fenguage:
“There are about two hundred and fly fins growing on each side of his
upper _chop_, which arch over his tongue on each side of his mouth”

“This reminds us that the Right Whale really has a sost of whisker, of
rather a moustache, consisting of a few scattered white hairs on the
‘upper part of the outer end of the lower jaw. Sometimes these turls
impart a rather brigandish expression to his otherwise solemn
sountenance.

As every one knows, these same “hogs' bristies,"“fins." "whiskers,"
“blinds,” or whatever you please, fumish to the ladies thelr busks and
other stifening contrivances, But in this particular, the demand has

fong been on the deciine. twas in Queen Anne's time that the bone was
{nits glory, the farthingate being then ail the fashion. And as those
ancient dames moved about gaily, though in the jaws of the whale, as
‘you may say, even so, in a shower, with the like thoughtiessness, do we
nowadays fly under the same jaws for protection; the umbrella being a
tent spread over the same bone.

But now forget all about blinds and whiskers for a moment, and,
standing in the Right Whale's mouth, took around you afresh. Seeing all
these calonnades of bone so methodically ranged about, would you not
think you were inside of the great Haarlem organ, and gazing upon its
thousand pipes? For a carpet to the organ we have a rug ofthe softest
Turkey—the tongue, which is glued, as it were, to the Roor ofthe

mouth. itis very fat and tender, and apt to tear in pieces in hoisting

iton deck. This particular tongue now before us; ata passing glance |
should say itwas a sic barrefer thatis, itwill yield you about that
amount of oi

Ere this, you must have plainly seen the truth of what t started
‘with—that the Sperm Whale and the Right Whale have almost entirely
different heads. To sum up, then: in the Right Whale's there is no
great wot of sperm; no ivory teeth at ail: no long, slender mandible
