Whether fagged by the thrse days’ sunning chase, and the resistance to
‘is swimming in the knotted hamper he bore; or whether itwas some
talent deceitfuiness and matice in him: whichever was true, the White
Whale's way now began to abate, as it seemed, from the boat so rapidly
nearing him once more; though indeed the whale's fast start had not
been so long a one as before, And sti as Ahab glided over the waves
‘the unpitying sharks accompanied him; and so pertinaciousty stuck to
the boat; and so continuslfy bit atthe plying oars, that the blades
became jagged and crunched, and ieft small splinters in the sea, at
almost every dip

“Heed ther not! those teeth but give new rowlocks ta your oars. Pull
‘ont tis the better rest, the shart’s jaw than the yielding water”

"But at every bite, sir, the thin blades grow smaller and smatier”

“They will fast iong enough! pull on!—But who can tetfhe
muttered—'whether these sharks swim to feast an the whale or on
‘Ahab?—But pull ont Aye, all alive, now—we near him. The hela! take the
heli! let me pass’—and so saying two of the oarsmen helped him forward
to the bows of the stil fying boat.

Attength as the oraft was cast to ane side, and ran ranging along with
the White Whale's flank, he seamed strangely oblivious ofits
advance—as the whale sometimes will—and Ahab was fairly within the
‘smoky mountain mist, which, thrown affrom the whale's spout, curled
round his great, Monadnock hump; he was even thus close to him; when,
with body arched back, and bath arms lengthwise high-lited ta the
poise, he darted his flerce iron, and his far fercer curse into the

hated whale. As both ste! and curse sank to the socket, as if sucked
into a morass, Moby Dick sideways writhed: spasmodically ratied his,
nigh flank against the bow, and, without staving a hole in it, so,

suddenly canted the boat over, that had it not been for the elevated

ast of the gunwaie to which he then clung, Ahab would once more have
been tossed inio the sea. As itwas, three ofthe oarsmen—who foreknew
not the precise instant of the dart, and were therefore unprepared for

its effects—these were flung out, but so fell, that, In an instant two
ofthem clutched the gunwale again, and rising to its evel on a

‘combing wave, hurled themselves bodily inboard again; the third man
belplessly dropping aster, but stil affoat and swimming,

Aimost simultaneously, with a mighty volition of ungraduated,
instantaneous swiftness, the White Whale darted through the weltering

‘sea. But when Ahab cried out to the steersman to take new tume with

the fine, and hold it 30; and commanded the crew to turn round on their
seats, and tow the boat up to the mark; the moment the treacherous fine
{eit hat double strain and tug, it snapped in the empty ait!

“What breaks in me? Some sinew cracks!—tis whole again; oars! oars!
