ye hear_that_, know that Ahab's hawser tows his purpose yet. Believe
ye, ment in the things called omens? Then laugh aloud, and ery encaret
For ere they drown, drowning things wit twice rise to the surface,

then rise again, to sink for evermore, Sa with Moby Dick—two days he's
fioated—tomorrow will be the third. Aye, men, he'll rise once more, —but
‘only to spout his fast! D'ye feet brave men, brave?”

 

“And as mechanical,” muttered Ahab. Then as the men went forward, he
‘muttered on: “The things called omens! And yesterday Halked the same

to Starbuck there, conceming my broken boat. Oht how valiantly Fseek

to drive out of others’ hearts what's clinched go fast in minel—The
Parsee—the Parsee!—gone, gone? and he was to go before:—but still was
to be seen again ere F could perish—How's that?— There's a riddie now
‘might baffle ail the lawyers backed by the ghosts of the whole line of
judges:—tike a hawk’s beak it pecks my brain. _FiL_,_Ii_ solve it,

thought

‘When dusk dessended, the whale was stil in sight to feeward.

So once more the sail was shortened, and everything passed nearly as on
the previous night, only, the sound ofhammers, and the hum of the
grindstone was heard til nearly daylight, as the men toiled by

Janters in the complete and careful rigging of the spare boats and
sharpening thelr fresh weapons for the mosrow. Meantime, of the broken
Keel of Ahab's wrecked craft the carpenter made him another jeg; while
stil. as on the night before, slouched Ahab stood fixed within his

soutile; his hid, heliotrope glance anticipatingly gone backward on its

ial; sat due eastward for the earliest sun.

‘CHAPTER 135, The Chase.—Third Day.

‘The morning ofthe third day dawned fair and fresh, and once more the
solitary night-man at the fore-mast-head was relieved by crowds of the
daylight iook-ouls, who dotted every mast and atrmost every spar.

“D'ye see him?” cried Ahab; but the whate was not yetin sight.

“in his infallible wake, though; but follow that wake, that's ail. Heim
there; steady, as thou goest, and hast been going. What a lovely day
again! were it a new-made world, and made for a summer-house to the
angels, and this moming the fst of ts throwing open to them, a

fairer day could not dawn upon that world. Here's food for thought, had
Ahab time to think: but Ahab never thinks: he only feels, feels, feels:
_that's_ tingling enough far mortal man! to think’s audacity. God any

‘has thal right and privilege. Thinking is, or ought to be, a cooiness

and a calmness; and our poor heatis throb, and our poor brains beat too
much for that. And yet, Fve sometimes thought my brain was very
