‘ames, the morn will show in far other, at east gentler, relief the
glorious, golden, glad sun, the only true amp—ail othess but Harst

Nevertheless the sun hides not Virginia's Dismal Swamp, nor Rome's:
accursed Campagna, nor wide Sahara, nor all the milions of miles of
desetis and of griets beneath the moon. The sun hides not the axean,
‘which is the dark side of this earth, and which is two thirds of this

earth. So, therefore, that mortal man who hath more of joy than somow

in him, that mortal man cannot be true—not true, or undeveloped. With
books the same. The truest af all men was the Man of Sorrows, and the
‘ruest of ail books is Solomon's, and Eeciesiastes is the fine hammered
steel of woe. “Allis vanity.” ALL. This wilful world hath not got hold

‘of unchristian Solomon's wisdom yet. But he who dodges hospitals and
Jails, and walks fast crossing graveyards, and would rather talk of

‘operas than hell: calls Cowper, Young, Pascal, Rousseau, poor devils

ail of sick men; and throughout a care-tiee lifetime swears by Rabelais

as passing wise, and therefore jolly:—not that man is fitted to sit

down on tomb-siones, and break the green damp mould with unfathornably
wondrous Solomon.

But even Solomon, he says, “the man that wandereth out of the way of
understanding shail remain” (_ie._, even while ving} “in the
‘congregation ofthe dead. Give nol thyself up, then, to fre, fest
invert thee, deaden thee: as for the time it did me. There is a wisdom
that is woe; but there is. a woe that is madness. And there is. 2

Catskil eagie in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest
gorges, and soar out of them again and become invisibie in the sunny
spaces. And even ifhe for ever fies within the gorge, that gorge is

fn the mountains; so thal even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle
‘is stl higher than other birds upon the piain, even though they soar.

CHAPTER 97. The Lame.

Had you descended from the Pequod's try-works to the Pequod's
forecastle, where the off duly watch were sleeping, for one single
‘moment you would have almost thought you were standing in some
‘luminated shrine of canonized kings and counsellors. There they lay
in their tiangutar oaken vaults, each mariner a chiselied muteness; a
soore offamps flashing upon his hooded eyes.

In merchantmen, aif for the sailor is more scarce than the milk of
‘queens. To dress in the dark, and eatin the dark, and stumble in
darkness to his pavet, this is his usual fot. But the whaleman, as he
‘seeks the food of fight, so he lives in light, He makes his berth an
Aladdin's amp, and fays him down init, so that in the pitehiest night
the ship's black hull stil houses an iumination,

See with what entire freedom the whateman takes his handful of
tamps—often but old botiies and vials, though—to the copper cooler at
