“For the thied time my sout’s ship starts upon this voyage, Starbuck”
“aye, sir, thou wilt have it 507

“Some ships sail from their ports, and ever afterwards are missing,
Starbuck

“Truth, sir: saddest truth”

“Some men die at ebb tide; some at tow water; some at the full ofthe
food: —and I fee! now tike a bifiow that's all one crested comb,
Starbuck, tam old;—shake hands with me, man.”

‘Their hands met: their eyes fastened: Starbuck's tears the glue.

“Oh, may captain, my captain!—noble heart—go nat—go nott—see, its a
brave man that weeps; how great the agony af the persuasion thenF

“Lower away!"cried Ahab, tossing the mate's arm from him. “Stand by
the crew!"

In an instant the boat was pulling round clase under the stern

“The sharks! the sharks” cried a voive from the low cabin-windaw
there; "O master, my master, come back!”

But Ahab heard nathing; for his own voice was high-tited then; and the
boat leaped on

Yet the voice spake true; for soaroe had he pushed from the ship, when
aumbers of sharks, seemingly rising from out the dark waters beneath
the hull, matlciously snapped at the blades of the oars, every time

they dipped in the water, and in this way accompanied the boat with

their bites. itis a thing not uncommonly happening to the whale-boats

In thse swarming seas; the sharks at mes apparently following them
in the same prescient way that vultures hover over the banners of
‘marching regiments in the east. But these were the frst sharks that

had been abserved by the Pequod since the White Whale had been fist
descried; and whether itwas that Anab's crew were all such
tiger-yellow barbarians, and therefore their Resh more musky to the
senses of the sharks—a matter sometimes well known to affect
them,—however twas, they seemed to follow that one boat without
motesting the others.

“Heart of wrought sleet” murmured Starbuck gazing over the side, snd
folowing with his eyes the receding boat—“canst thou yet cing boldly

to that sight?lowering thy keel among ravening sharks, and followed by
them, open-mouthed to the chase; and this the eritical third day?—For
when three days flow together in one continuous intense pursuit; be
