So down we went inio the cabin, and to my great Jay Queequeg was soon
‘enrolled among the same ship's company to which | myself belonged.

‘When aif preliminaries were over and Peleg had got everything ready for
signing, he tured to me and said, “guess, Quohog there don't know
how to write, does he? Fsay, Quohog, blast yet dest thou sign thy name
or make thy mark?”

But at this question, Queequeg, who had twice or thrice before taken
part in similar ceremonies, tooked no ways abashed; but taking the
offered pen, copied upon the paper. in the proper piace, an exact
counterpart of queer round figure which was tattooed upon his arm, so
that through Captain Peleg's obstinate mistake touching his

appellative, it stood something like this: —

‘Quohog. his X mark.

Meanwhile Captain Bildad sat eamestly and steadfastly eyeing Queequeg,
and at last rising soferanty and fumbting in the huge pockets of his,
broad-skirted drab coat, took out a bundle of tracts, and selecting one
entitled “The Latter Day Coming: or No Time to Lose.” placed itin
‘Queequeg's hands, and then grasping them and the book with both his,
tooked earnestly inio his eyes, and said, “Son of darkness, | must do
‘my duty by thee: !am part owner ofthis ship, and feel concemed for

the souls ofall is crew, iTthau stil clingest to thy Pagan ways,

which f sadly fear, Ibeseech thee, remain not for aye a Belial
bondsman, Spurn the idol Beil, and the hideous dragon; turn from the
wrath to come: mind thine eye, Isay, ohf goodness gracioust steer
clear ofthe fiery pit?

Something ofthe sait sea yet lingered in old Bitdad's language,
heterogeneously mixed with Scriptural and domestic phrases.

“Avast there, avast there, Bildad, avast now spoiting our harpooneer”
cried Peleg. “Pious harpooneers never make good voyagers—it takes the
shark out of ‘em, no harpooneer is worth a straw who aint pretty

sharkish. Thete was young Nat Swaine, once the bravest boat-header out
of ail Nantucket and the Vineyard: he joined the meeting, and never
‘came to good. He got so fightened about his plaguy soul, that he
shtinked and sheered away from whales, for fear of afler-claps, in case
‘he got stove and went to Davy Jones”

“Peleg! Peleg!” sald Bildad, iting his eyes and hands, “thou thyself,
as I myself, hast seen many a perilous time; thou knowest, Peleg, what
itis to have the fear of death; how, then, ean'st thou prate in this

ungodly guise. Thou helfest thine own heatt, Peleg. Teil me, when this,
same Pequod here had her three masts overboard in that typhoon on
Jagan, that same voyage when thou went mate with Capiain Ahab, did'st
thou not think of Death and the Jadament then?”
