‘Time out of mind the piratical proas of the Malays, turking among the
Jow shaded coves and islets of Sumatra, have saltied out upon the
‘vessels sailing through the straits, iereely demanding tribute at the
point oftheir spears. Though by the repeated bloody chastisements they
hhave received al the hands of European cruisers, the audacity ofthese
corsairs has ofjate been somewhat repressed; ye, even at the present
day, we occasionally hear of English and Amesican vessels, which, in
those waters, have been remorselessly boarded and pillaged.

With 2 fair, fresh wind, the Pequod was now drawing nigh to these
straits; Ahab purposing to pass through them into the Javan sea, and
thence, cruising northwards, over waters known to be frequented here
and there by the Sperm Whale, sweep inshore by the Philippine Islands,
‘and gain the far coast of Japan, in time for the great whaling season

there. By these means, the circumnavigating Pequad would sweep almost
aif the known Sperm Whale cruising grounds of the world, previous to
‘descending upon the Line in the Pacific: where Ahab, though everywhere
‘efse foiled in his pursuit, frruly counted upon giving battle to Moby

Dick, in the sea he was most known to frequent; and at a season when he
might most reasonably be presumed to be haunting it

But how now? in this zoned quest, does Ahab touch no jand? does his,
crew dink air? Surely, he will sop for water. Nay. For a tong time,

now, the circus-running sun has raced within his lery sing, and needs

no sustenance but what's in himself. Ge Ahab. Mark this, too, in the

whaler. While other huis are loaded down with alien stuf to be
transferred to foreign wharves; the world-wandering whaie-ship carries

no cargo but herself and crew, theit weapons and their wants. She has 2
whole take's contents bottied in her ample hold. She is bailasted with
utilities; not altogether with unusable pig-lead and kenlledge. She

caries years’ water in her. Clear old prime Nantucket water; which,

when three years afloat, the Nantucketer, in the Pacific, prefers to

drink before the brackish fluid, but yesterday rafted off in casks,

from the Peruvian or indian streams. Hence iti, that, while other

ships may have gone to China from New York, and back again, touching at
2 score of paris, the whale-ship, in all that interval, may not have

sighted one grain of soil her erew having seen no man but floating
seamen like themselves. So that did you carry them the news that

another flood had come: they would only answer— Well, boys, here's the
Brkt

Now, as many Sperm Whales had been captured off the westem coast of
Java, in the near vicinity ofthe Straits of Sunda: indeed, as most of

the ground, roundabout, was generally tecognised by the fishermen as an
‘exceltent spot for cruising; therefore, as the Pequod gained more and
‘more upon Java Head, the ook-ouls were repeatedly hailed, and
admonished to Keep wide awake. But though the green palmy cliffs of the
tand soon loomed on the starboard bow, and with delighted nostrils the
fresh cinnamon was snuffed in the air, yet not a single jet was

descried, Almost renouncing all thought of falling in with any game
