{ail are fisted high into the air; then smiting the surface, the
thunderous concussion resound for miles, You would almost think &
great gum had been discharged: and if you noticed the tight wreath of
‘vapor from the spiracle at his other extremity, you would think that
that was the smoke from the touch-hole.

Fifth: As In the ordinary floating posture of the feviathan the flukes:
Jie considerably below the level of his back, they are then completely
‘out of sight beneath the surface; but when he is about to plunge into

the deeps, his entire fukes with at least thiry feet of his bady are

tossed erect in the air, and so remain vibrating a moment, tl they
downwards shoot out of view. Excepting the sublime _breach_—somewhere
tise to be descibed—ihis peaking ofthe whale's Rukes is pechaps the
grandest sight io be seen in all animated nature. Out of the bottomless
profundities the gigantic tail seems spasmodically snatehing at the
highest heaven. So in dreams, have | seen majeste Satan thrusting

{orth his tormented colossal claw from the flame Baltic of Hel. But in
‘gazing at such scenes, itis all in all what mood you are in; ifin the
Dantean, the devits will occur to you: Tin that of Isaiah, the

archangels, Standing at the mast-head of my shin during a sunrise that,
crimeoned sky and sea, tonce saw a large herd of whales in the east,

ail heading towards the sun, and for a moment vibrating in concert with
peaked flukes, Asit seemed to me at the time, such a grand embodiment
of adoration of the gods was never beheld, even in Persia, the home of
the fire worshippers. As Plolemy Philopater testified of the African
‘elephant, | then testiied of the whale, pronouncing him the most

devout ofall beings. For according to King Juba, the military

elephants of antiquity often hailed the morning with their trunks

uupfited in the profoundest silence,

‘The chance comparison In this chapter, between the whale and the
elephant, so far as some aspects ofthe tall ofthe one and the trunk
ofthe other are coneemed, should not tend to place those two opposite
organs on an equality, much tess the creatures to which they
respectively belong. For as the mightiest elephants but terrier to.
Leviathan, 20, compared with Leviathan's tal, his tunk is but the

statk of tly. The most direful blow from the elephant's trunk were

as the playful tag of a fan, compared with the measureless crush and
crash ofthe sperm whate's ponderous flukes, which in repeated
instanees have one after the other hurled entire boats with all their
‘oars and crews into the alr, very much as an indian juggler tosses his
atts.”

“Tough all comparison in the way of general bulk bebween the whale and
the elephant is preposterous, inasmuch as in that particular the

elephant stands in much the same tespect to the whale that a dog does

to the elephant: nevertheless, there are not wanting some paints of
‘curious simiitude: among these is the spout. tie well known that the
slephant will often draw up water or dust in fis unk, and then

elevating it, jett forth in a stream.
