obedience to thy own flat commands, tris is al thou breathest. Aye,
and eay'st the men fave vow'd thy vow; say'st all of us are Ahabs.

‘Great God forbidl—Butis there no other way? no lawful way?—Make him 2
prisoner to be taken home? What! hope to wrest this old man's living

‘power from his own living hands? Only 2 foot would try. Say he were
pinioned even: knotted ail over with ropes and hawsers, chained down to
‘ing-bolts on this cabin floor, he would be more hideous than a caged

tiger, then. toould not endure the sight; could not possibly fy his

howlings; al comfor, sleep tiself,inestimable reason would feave me

‘on the tong intolerable voyage. What, then, remains? The land is

hundreds of leagues away, and locked Japan the nearest. 'stand alone
here upon an open sea, with two oceans and a whole continent between me
and faw—Aye, aye, ‘is s0.—Is heaven a murderer when its fightring

stikes a would-be murderer in his bed, tindering sheets and skin
together?—And would Ibe a murderer, then, if —and slowly, stealthily

‘and half sideways looking, he placed the loaded musket's end against

the door.

“On this tevel, Ahab’s hammock swings within; his head this way. A
touch, and Starbuck may survive to hig his wife and child again.—Oh
Mary! Mary!—boy! boy! boy!—But if wake thee not fo death, old man,

‘who can tell to what unsounded deaps Starbuck's body this day week may
sink, with ail the crew! Great God, where at Thou? Shall !? shall

P—The wind has gone down and shifted, sir; the fore and main topsails
‘are reefed and set, she heads her course.”

“Stem all! Ob Moby Dick, tolutch thy heart atlast!”

Such were the sounds that now came hurting from out the old man's
tormented sleep, as if Starbuck's voice had caused the long dumb dream
to speak.

‘The yet tevelled musket shook like a drunkard's arm against the panel,
Starbuck seemed wrestling with an angel; but turning from the door, he
placed the death-tube in its rack, and left the place.

“He's too sound asieep, Mr. Stubb; go thou down, and wake him, and tel!
‘him, must see to the deck here, Thou know'st what fo say”

CHAPTER 124, The Needle.

Next maming the notyet-subsided sea rolled in long slow bilows of
snighly bulk, and steiving in the Pequod's gurgling track, pushed her on
‘ike giants’ palms outspread. The strong, unstaggering breeze abounded
0, that sky and air seemed vast outbellying sails; the whole world
‘boamed before the wind. Muffed in the full morning Hight, he

‘invisible sun was only known by the spread intensity of his place:

where his bayonet rays moved on in stacks. Emblazonings, as of crowned
abyionian kings and queens, reigned over everything. The sea was.as 2
