‘encounter between Ahab and the whale had hitherto been papularly
regarded.

And as for those who, previously hearing ofthe White Whale, by chance
‘caught sight of him, in the beginning of the thing they had every one.
cofthem, almost, as boldly and fearlessly lowered for him, as for any
‘other whale of that species. But at ength, such calamities did ensue

in these assaulis—not restricted to sprained wrisis and ankles, broken
Jimbs, o¢ devouring amputations—but fatal to the fast degree of

fatality; hose repeated disastrous repulses, afl accumulating and

piling their terrors upon Moby Dick; those things had gone far to shake
the fortitude of many brave hunters, to whom the story of the White
Whale had eventually come.

Nor did wild rumors of all sorts fail to exaggerate, and sit the more
honly the tue histories of these deadly encounters, For not only do
fabulous rumors naturally grow out af the very body ofall surprising
temible events —as the smitten tee gives birth to its fungi; but, in
‘maritime tite, far more than in that of terra firma, wild rumors

abound, wherever there is any adequate reality for them to cling to.

‘And as the sea surpasses the fand in this matter, so the whale fishery
surpasses every other sort of maritime fie, in the wonderfulness and
fearfulness ofthe rumors which sometimes circulate there. For nat only
re whalemen as a body unexempt rom that ignorance and
superstitiousness hereditary to all sailors; but ofall sailors, they

are by all odds the most directly brought into contact with whaiever is,
appaitingly astonishing in the sea; face to face they not only eye its
greatest marvels, but, Rand to jaw, give battle to them. Alone, in such
remotest waters, that though you sailed a thousand miles, and passed a
thousand shores, you would nat came to any chiseled hearth-stone, or
aught hospitable beneath that part ofthe sun; in suc fatitudes and
longitudes, pursuing too such a calling as he does, the whaleman is
‘wrapped by influences ail tending to make his fency pregnant with many
a mighty bith

No wonder, then, that ever gathering volume from the mere transit over
the widest watery spaces, the outblown rumors of the White Whale did in
the end incorporate with themselves all manner of morbid hints, and
‘hait-formed feetal suggestions of supematural agencies, which

eventually invested Moby Dick with new terrors unborrowed from anything
that visibly appears. So that in many cases such a panic did he finally
stike, that few who by those rumors, at feast, had heard of the White
‘Whale, few of those hunters were willing to encounter the perils of his

Jw.

But there were stil other and more vital practical influences at work,
Not even at the present day has the original prestige ofthe Sperm.
Whale, as fearfully distinguished from all other species ofthe
teviathan, died out of the minds ofthe whalemen as a body. There are
those this day amang them, who, though intelligent and courageous
