cannot bide the soul. Through all his unearthly tattooings, I thought E
saw the aves ofa simple honest heart, and in his large, deep eyes,

fiery black and bold, there seemed tokens ofa spirit that would dare @
thousand devils. And besides allthis, there was a certain lofty

bearing about the Pagan, which even his uncouthnees could not
altogether maim. He looked like a man who had never cringed and never
‘had had a creditor. Whether it was, too, that his head being shaved,

his forehead was drawn out in freer and brighter relief, and looked

‘more expansive than it otherwise would, this f wil nat venture to

decide; but certain itwas his head was phrenologically an excellent

‘one. may seem ridiculous, but it reminded me of General Washington's
‘head, as sean in the popular busts of him. fthad the same tong

regularly graded retreating slope from above the brows, which were
tikewise very projecting, like two tong promontories thickly wooded on
top. Queequeg was George Washington cannibatistically developed

‘Whilst fwas thus closely scanning him, naif pretending meanwhile to be
ooking out at the storm from the casement, he never heeded my

presence, never troubled himeetf with so much as a single glance: but
appeared wholly occupied with counting the pages of the marvellous

‘book. Considering how saciably we had been sleeping together the night
previous, and especially considering the affectionate arm thad found
thrown over me upon waking in the morning, thought this indifference
ofhiis very strange. But savages are strange beings, al times you do

not know exactly how to take them. At first they are overawing: thelr

calm seif-collectedness of simplicity seems a Socratic wisdom. thad
noticed also that Queequeg never consorted at all, or but very tite,

with the other seamen in the inn, He made no advances whatever:
‘appeared to have no desire to enlarge the circle of his acquaintances

All this struck me as mighty singular, yet, upon second thoughts, there

was something almost sublime in it. Here was a man some twenty thousand
smiles fear home, by the way of Cape Horn, that ie—which was the only
way he could get there—thrown among people as strange to him as though
he were in the planet Jupiter: and yet he seemed entrely at his ease.
preserving the ulmost serenity, content with his own companionship,
‘always equal to himself. Surely this was a touch of fine philosophy;

though no doubt he had never heard there was such a thing as that, But,
pethaps, to be true philosophers, we morlals should not be conscious of

so living oF so striving. So soon as tear that such or such a man

gives himseifout for a philosopher, I conclude that, tke the

dyspeptic old woman, he must have “broken his digester.”

As I sat there In that now fonely soar, the fire burning low, in that
srild stage when, after is fist intensity has warmed the air, itthen

‘only glows to be fooked at; the evening shades and phantoms gathering
sound the casements, and peering in upon us silent, solitary twain; the
storm booming without in solemn swells; Inegan to be sensible of
strange feelings. Ffeit a meiting in me. No more my splintered heart

and maddened hand were tumed against the woifish world. This soothing
savage had redeemed it. There he sat, his very indifference speaking 2
