“We set sail from the Elbe, wind N.E. in the ship called The
Jonas-in-the-Whale.... Some say the whale can't open his mouth, but
that fs a fable... They frequently climb up the masis to see whether
they can see a whale, for the fist discoverer has a ducat for his
pains... hwas told of a whale taken near Shetland, that had above a
barrel afherrings In his belly... One of our harpooneers told me

that he caught onoe a whale in Spitzbergen that was white all over.”
—_AVoyage to Greentand, A.D._ 1674. _Haris Catt_,

“Several whales have come in upon this coast (Fife) Anno #652, one
eighty feet in fength of the whale-bone kind came in, which (as twas
informed), besides a vast quantity ofall, did afford 500 weight of
baleen. The jaws oft siand for a gale in the garden of Pitferren.”
—_Sibbald's Fife and Kinross_.

“Myself have agreed to ty whether can master and kill this
Sperma-cell whale, for Foould never hear of any of that sort that
was killed by any pian, such is his ferceness and swiftness.”
—_Richard Strafford's Letter rom the Bermudas. Phil. Trans. AD.
1668.

“Whales in the sea God's voice obey." —_N. E. Pimer_.

“We saw atso abundance af tage whales, there being more in those
southem seas, as I may say, by a hundred to one; than we have to the
northward of us.” —_Capiain Cowley's Voyage round the Globe, AD._
4728,

~.. and the breath of the whate is frequently attended with such an
insupportable smell, as to bring on a disorder af the brain.”
—_Utloa’s South America_.

“To fity chosen syiphs of special nate, We trust the important
charge, the petticoat. Of have we known thal seven-fold fence to
‘ail, Tho’ stuffed with hoops and armed with bs of whale.” —_Rape
ofthe Lock_.

“itwe compare tand animals in respect to magnitude, with those that
take up their abode in the deep, we shall find they wit! appear
contemplibie in the comparison. The whale is doubliess the largest
animal in creation." —_Goldemith, Nat. Hist_.

 

“ityou should write a fable for litte fishes, you would make them.
speak like great whales.” —_Goldsmith to Johnson.

“in the afternoon we saw what was supposed to be a rock, but twas
