scales.

‘The Pequod's whale being decapitated and the body stipped, the head
‘was hoisted against the ship's side—about halfway out ofthe sea, so

that it might yet in great part be buoyed up by iis native element. And

there with the strained craft steeply feaning over to it, by reason of

the enormous downward drag from the lower mast-head, and every yard-arm
on that side projecting like a crane over the waves; there, that

blood-dripping head hung to the Pequod's waist like the giant

Holofernes's from the girdle of Judith

When this tast task was accomplished it was noon, and the seamen went
below to their dinner. Silence reigned over the before tumultuous but
now deserted deck. An intense copper calm, like a universal yellow
folus, was more and more unfolding its noiseless measureiess leaves
upon the sea.

A short space etapsed, and up into this noisetessness came Ahab atone
‘rom his cabin, Taking a few turns on the quarter-deck, he paused to
‘gaze over the side, then slowly getting into the main-chains he took
Stubb's tong spade—siil remaining there after the whale's
decapitation—and staking itinio the lower part of the hatf-suspended
‘mass, placed its other end crutch-vise under one arm, and so stood
teaning over with eyes attentively fixed on this head

was a black and hooded head; and hanging there in the midst of so
intense a caim, it cemed the Sphynx'sin the desert. “Speak, thou vast
and venerable head,” muttered Ahab, “whieh, though ungamished with 2
beard, yet here and there tookest hoary with mosses: speak, mighty

‘head, and tell us the secret thing thats in thee. Of all divers, thou

hast dived the deepest. That head upon which the upper sun now gleams,
‘has moved amid this world's foundations. Where untecorded names and
navies rust, and untold hopes and anchors rot; where in her murderous,
hold this frigate earth is baltasted with bones of millions of the

Srowned: there, in that awful water-iand, there was thy most farniiar
‘ome, Thou hast been where bell or diver never went: hast slept hy many
a sailor's side, where sleepless mothers would give their tives to tay
‘them down, Thou saw'st the focked lovers when leaping from their
‘aming ship; heart io heart they sank beneath the exulting wave; fue

to each other, when heaven seemed false to them, Thou saw’st the
murdered mate when tossed by pirates from the midnight deck, for hours
he fell into the deeper midnight ofthe insaliate maw; and his

‘murderers stil sailed on unharmed_—while swift ightnings shivered the
‘neighboring ship that would have horne a ighteous hushand to
oulstretched, fonging arms. O head! thou hast seen enough to split the
planets and make an infidel of Abraham, and not one syllable is thine!”

“Sail ho! cried a tumphant voice from the main-masthead.

“Aye? Weil, now, that's cheering,” eried Ahab, suddenly erecting
