wildest winds of heaven and earth conspire to cast her on the
treacherous, siavish shore?

But as in landlessness alone resides highest uth, shoreless,
indefinite as God—so, better Is ito perish in that howling infinite,

than be ingioriously dashed upon the fee, even ifthat were safety! For
worrtike, then, oh! who would craven craw! to land! Terrors of the
terrible! is ail this agony o vain? Take heart, take heart, O
‘Butkington! Bear thee grimly, demigod! Up from the spray of thy
ovean-perishing—straight up, Jeaps thy apotheosis!

CHAPTER 24, The Advocate.

As Queequeg and ! are now fairly embarked In this business of whaling,
and as this business of whaling has somehow come to be regarded among
fandsmen as a rather unpoetical and disreputable pursuit; therefore, |

am all anxiely to convince ye, ye landsmen, of the injustice hereby

done to us hunters of whales.

In the fist place, it may be deemed almost superfiuous to establish
the fact that among people at large, the business ofwhaling is not
accounted on a level with what are called the liberal professions. fa
stranger were introduced into any miscellaneous metropolitan society,
itwould but slightly advance the general opinion of his merits, were

the presented to the company as a harpooneer, say, and ifin emulation
ofthe naval officers he should append the initials SWF (Sperm Whale
Fishery} to his visiting card, such a procedure would be deemed,
pre-eminently presuming and ridiculous,

Doubtiess one leading reason why the world declines honering us
whalemen, ig this: they think that, at best, our vocation amounts to a
butchering sort of business; and that when actively engaged therein, we
‘are surrounded by all manner of defilements. Butchers we are, that is
‘rue. But butchers, also, and butchers of the bloodiest badge have been
al! Martial Commanders whom the vinrld invariably delights to honor. And
as for the matter ofthe atleged uncleantiness of our business, ye

shail soon be initiated into certain facts hitherto pretty generally

‘unknown, and which, upon the whole, will tiumphantly plant the sperm
whale-ship at least among the cleaniiest things ofthis tidy earth. But
‘even granting the charge in question to be true: what disordered

sliopery decks of a whate-ship are comparable to the unspeakable
carrion of those battle-fields fram which so many soldiers return to

rink in all ladies’ plaudits? And ifthe idea of pent so much

‘enhances the popular conceit of the soldier's profession; let me assure

ye that many a veteran who has freely marched up to a battery, would
quickly recoil at the apparition of the sperm whale’s vast tal

fanning into eddies the air over his head. For what are the
comprehensibie terrors of man compared with the interlinked terrors and
wonders of God!
