fast as it evaporates, There ate no external chimneys: they open direct
from the rear wall, And here fet us go back for a moment,

twas about nine o'clock at night that the Pequod’s try-works were
{ist started on this present voyage. tt belonged to Stubb to oversee
the business,

“All ready there? Off hatch, then, and start her. You cook, fire the
works.” This was an easy thing, for the carpenter had been thrusting

‘bis shavings into the furnace throughout the passage. Here be it said
that in a whaling voyage the fist fre in the try-works has to be fed

for a time with wood. After that no wood is used, except as a means of
quick ignition to the staple fuel. ina word, affer being tied out,

the crisp, shrivelied biubber, now called scraps or friters, still

contains considerable ofits unctuous properties. These filters feed

the flames. Like 2 plethoric burning martyr, or a self-consuming
misanthrope, once ignited, the whale supplies his own fuel and bums by
‘nis own body. Would that he consumed his own smoke! for his smoke is
omibie to inbate, and inhate it you must, and not only that, but you

‘must five in itfor the time. thas an unspeakable, wild, Hindoo odor
about it, such as may lurk in the vicinity of funereal pyres. itsmells

tike the left wing of the day of judgment itis an argument for he

it

By midnight the works were in full operation. We were clear from the
carcase; sail had heen made; the wind was freshening: the wild ocean
darkness was intense, But that darkness was lieked up by the fierce
flames, which at intervals forked forth from the sooty flues, and
‘luminated every lofty rope in the rigging, as with the famed Greek

fire, The burning ship drove on, as if remorselessly commissioned to
some vengeful deed. So the pitch and suiphur-freighted bigs ofthe
bold Hydriote, Canaris, issuing from their midnight harbors, with broad
sheets of flame for sais, bore down upon the Turkish frigates, and
folded them in conflagrations.

‘The haich, removed from the top of the works, now afforded a wide
hearth in front of them. Standing on this were the Tarlarean shapes of
the pagan harpooneers, always the whale-ship's stokers. With huge
pronged poles they pitched hissing masses of blubber into the scalding
als, oF sted up the fires beneath, tl the snaky ames darted,

curling, out af the daors to catch them hy the feet. The smoke rotied
away in sullen heaps. To every pitch ofthe ship there was a pitch of

the bofting oil, which seemed ail eagemess to teag into theit faces.
Opposite the mouth of the works, on the further side of the wide wooden
hearth, was the windlass, This served for a sea-sofa, Here lounged the
watch, when not otherwise employed, looking into the red heat ofthe
fire, til their eyes felt scorched In their heads. Their taveny

features, now all begrimed with smoke and sweat, their matted beards,
‘and the contrasting barbaric briliancy of their teeth, all these were
strangoly revealed in the capricious embiazonings of the works. As they
