something that wil stick in a whale fike his own fin-bone. There's the
stuff” flinging the pouch upon the anv. “Look ye, blacksmith, these
are the gathered nai-stubbs of he steel shoes of racing horses”

“Horseshoe stubbs, sit? Why, Captain Ahab, thou hast here. then, the
best and stubbomast stuffwe blacksmiths ever work”

“}know it, old man; these stubs wit weld together fke glue from the
melted bones of murderers, Quick! forge me the harpoon. And forge me
first, twelve sods for its shank, then wind, and twist, and hammer

these tweive together lke the yams and strands ofa tow-tine. Quick!

PH Blow the fre”

When at iast the twelve rods were made, Ahab tied them, one by one, by
spiraling them, with Ris own hand, sound a tong, heavy ion bott."A
flaw!” rejecting the last one. “Work that over again, Perth.”

‘This done, Perth was about to begin welding the twelve into one, when
Ahab siayed his hand, and said he would weld fis own fron. As, then,
with regular, gasping hems, he hammered on the anvil, Perth passing to
‘him the glowing rods, one after the other, and the hard pressed forge
shooting up its intense straight flame, the Parsee passed silently, and
bowing over his head towards the fire, seemed invoking some curse oF
some blessing on the toil. ut, as Ahab looked up. he slid aside.

“What's that bunch of luciters dodging about there for?" muttered
Stubb, looking on from the forecastie. “That Parsee smolts fire the 2
fuse; and smells oft himself, tke a hot muskel's powder-pan

Atiast the shank, in one complete sod, received its final heat, and as
Perth, to temper it, plunged it all hissing into the cask of water near
ty, the scalding steam shot up into Ahab's bent face.

*Would'st thou brand me, Perth?” wincing for a moment with the pain,
“have I been but forging my own branding-iron, then?”

“Pray God, not that: yet fear something, Captain Ahab. fs not this
arpoon for the White Whale?”

“For the white fiend! But now for the barbs; thou must make them
thyseif, man. Hore are my razors—the best of steet, here, and make the
barbs sharp as the needie-sleet of the [cy Sea”

For a moment, the old blacksmith eyed the razors as though he would
fain not use them.

“Take them, man, Have no need for them; for I now neither shave, sup,
nor pray fil_but here—to work”

Fashioned at last into an arrowy shape, and weided by Perth to the
