the invoking, and adoring cherubimt

‘Most famous in our Western annals and Indian traditions is that of the
White Steed of the Prairies: a magnificent milt-white charger,
farge-eyed, small-headed, bluff-chested, and with the dignity of 9
thousand monarchs in his lofty, overscoming carriage. He was the
elected Xermes of vast herds of wild horses, whose pastures in those
days were only fenced by the Rocky Mountains and the Alleghanies. At
their Raming head he westward trooped it ike that chosen star which
every evening leads on the hosts of fight. The flashing cascade of his
‘mane, the curving comet of his tal, Invested him with housings more
sespiendent than gold and silver-beaters could have furnished him. A
‘most imperial and archangelical apparition of that unfalien, westem
world, which to the eyes of the old trappers and hunters revived the
glories of those primeval times when Adam walked malestic as a god,
bluff browed and fearless as this mighty steed. Whether marching amid
hhis aides and marshals in the van of counties cohorts that endlessly
streamed it over the plains, tike an Ohio, or whether with bis
citcumambient subjects browsing al around at the horizon, the White
Steed gallopingly reviewed them with warm nastrits reddening through
his coo! mitkiness; In whatever aspect he presented himself, always to
the bravest Indians he was the object of trembling reverence and awe.
Nor ean it be questioned from what stands on legendary record ofthis,
noble horse, that twas his spiritual whiteness chiefly, which so

slothed him with dlvineness; and that this divineness had thatin it
which, though commanding worship, at the same time enforced a certain
nameless terror,

But there are other instances where this whiteness loses all that
accessory and strange glory which invests itin the White Steed and
Albatross.

‘Whats it that in the Atbina man so peculiarly repels and often shocks
the eye, as that sometimes he is toathed by his own kith and tint iis
that whiteness which iavesis him, a thing expressed by the name he
bears, The Albino is as well made as other men—has no substantive
‘defonmity—and yet this mere aspect of al-pervading whiteness makes him
more strangely hideous than the ustiest abortion. Why should this be

Nos. in quite other aspects, does Nature in her feast palpable but not
the jess maticious agencies, fail to enlist among her forces this

‘crowning attribute ofthe terrible, From its snowy aspect, the

gauntieted ghost of the Southem Seas has been denominated the White
Squall. Nor, in some histosic instances, has the artof human matics
omitted so potent an auxtiary. How wildly theightens the effect of

that passage In Froissart, when, masked in the snowy symbol af theit
faction, the desperate White Hoods of Ghent murder their baitif in the
market place!
