ships carry to each mast, js intended to conduct it inio the water. But
‘as this conductor must descend to considerable depth, that its end may
‘avoid al! contact with the hull; and as moreover, ifkept constantly
towing there, it would be table to many mishaps, besides interfering
ata fittle with some of the rigging, and more or fess impeding the
vessel's way in the water, because of all this, the lower paris of

ship's fighining-rods are not always overboard; but are generally made
in Jong slender links, so as to be the more readily hauled up into the
‘chains outside, or thrown down into the sea, as occasion may require.

“The rods! the rodst" cried Starbuck to the crew, suddenly admonished
to vigilance by the vivid lightning that had just been darting
fambeaux, to fight Ahab to his post. “Are they overboard? drop them.
aver, fore and aft. Quick”

“avast cried Ahab; “let's have fait play here, though we be the
weaker side. Yat Fil contribute to raise rods on the Himmatehs and
Andes, that all the world may be secured: but out on privileges! Let
them he, sir”

“Look aloft” cried Starbuck. “The compusanist the compusantst”

All the yard-arms were tipped with a patiid fire; and touched ateach
‘Fi-poinied lightning-rod-end with three tapering white flames, each of
the three tall masts was silently burning in that sulphurous ait, tke
three gigantic wax tapers before an altar.

“Blast the boat! fet it go? cried Siubb at this instant, as a swashing
‘sea heaved up under his own title craf, so that its gunwate violently
jammed his hand, as he was passing a lashing. “Blast it!but slipping
backward on the deck, his uplified eyes caught the Rames; and
immediately shifting his tone he cried—"The corpusanis have mercy on us
ail

‘To sailors, oaths are household words; they will swear in the trance of
the caim, and in the teeth of the tempest; they wil imprecate curses
from the topsail-yard-arms, when most they teeter over to a seething
ea; but in aif my voyagings, seldom have [heard a common oath when
‘God's buming finger has Deen laid an the ship: when His “Mene, Mene,
‘Takel Upharsin” has been woven into the shrouds and the cordage.

‘White this pattidness was buming aiof, few words were heard from the
‘enchanted crew; who in one thick luster stood on the forecast, al
their eyes gleaming in that pale phosphorescence, like a far away
‘constellation of stars. Relieved against the ghostly Hight, the

‘igantic jet negro, Daggeo, loomed up to thrice his reat stature, and
‘seemed the black cloud from which the thunder had come. The parted
‘mouth of Tashtego reveated his sharicwhite teeth, which strangely
gleamed as if they too had been tipped by corpusants; while itup by
the pretematural light, Queequeg's tattooing burned like Satanic biue
