sure the frstis the morning, the second the noon, and the third the
‘evening and the end of that thing—be that end what it may. Oh my God?
‘whats this that shoots through me, and leaves me so deadly caim, yet
expectant —fixed at the top of a shudder! Future things swim before me,

as in empty outlines and skeletons; all the past is somehow grown dim.

‘Mary, git thou fadest in pale glories behind me; bay! !seam to see

‘but thy eyes grown wondrous blue. Strangest problems offife seem
slesring, but clouds sweep between—is my joumney's end coming? My legs
{eel faint, ike his who has footed it all day. Feel thy heartbeats

ityel? Stir thyself, Starbuck!—stave it of move, move! speak
aloud!_Mast-head there! See ye my boy's hand on the hil?Crazed:—stoft
there!_keep thy keenest eye upon the boats:—mark well the whale!—Hot
again!—drive off that hawk! seet he pecks—he tears the vane"—pointing

to the red flag fying at the main-truck—Hat he soars away with

‘tl_Where's the old man now? see'st thou that sight, oh Ahab!—shudder,
shudder!

  

‘The boais had not gone very far, when by a signal fram the mastheads—a
downward pointed arm, Ahab knew that the whate had sounded: but
intending to be near him at the next rising, he held on his way 2

litte sideways from the vessel; the becharmed orew maintaining the
profoundest silenos, as the head-beat waves hammered and hammered
against the opposing bow.

“Drive, drive in your nails, oh ye wavest to their uttermost heads:
deive them int ye but strike a thing without a lid; and 110 coffin and
10 hearse can be mine—and hemp only can kill maf Hat har”

Suddenly the waters around them stowly swelled in broad circles: then
‘quickly upheaved, as if sideways sliding from a submerged berg ofice,
swifly rising to the surface. Alow rumbling sound was heard: a
subterraneous hum: and then ail held thelr breaths; as bedraggled with
‘sailing ropes, and harpoons, and tances, a vast form shot lengthwise,
but obliquely trom the sea, Shrouded in a thin drooping veil of mist,
Ithovered for a moment in the rainbowed air, and then fell swamping
‘back into the deep. Crushed thinly feet upwards, the waters Rashed for
an instant fke heaps of fountains, then brokenly sank in a shower of
fakes, teaving the circling surface creamed like new milk round the
‘marble frank of the whale.

“Give way!" cried Ahab to the oarsmen, and the boats darted forward to
‘he attack; but maddened by yesterday's fresh irons that corroded in
‘him, Moby Dick seemed combinedly possessed by all the angels that fell
from heaven, The wide tiers of wetded tendons overspreading his broad
white forehead, beneath the transparent skin, tooked knitted together,

as head on, he came churning hie tail among the boats; and once more
failed them apart; spiting out the irons and tances from the two

‘mates’ boats, and dashing in one side of the upper part oftheir bows,

but feaving Ahab's almost without a scar.
