‘nothing was to be heard; but a supernatural hand seemed placed in ming.
‘My arm hung over the counterpane, and the nameless, unimaginable,
silent form or phantom, to which the hand belonged, seemed closely
seated by my bed-side, For what seemed ages piled on ages, Hay there,
frozen with the most awful fears, not daring to drag away my hand; yet
‘ever thinking that if {could but stirit one single inch, the horrid

spall would be broken, knew not how this consciousness at last glided
away fram me; but waking in the moming, t shudderingly remembered it
all, and for days and weeks and months afterwards I ost myselfin
confounding attempis to explain the mystery. Nay, ta this very hour,
pften puzzle mysetf with it

Now, take away the awful fear, and my sensations at feeling the
supernatural hand in mine were very similar, in their stangeness, to

those which F experienced on waking up and seeing Quesqueg's pagan arm
thrown round me. But at length all the past night's events soberly

recurred, one by one, in fixed reallly, and then Flay only alive to

the comical predicament. For though I tied to move his arm—umiack his
bridegroom clasp—yet, sleeping as he was, he stil hugged me tight,

as though naught but death should part us twain. tnow strove to rouse

him —"Queequegl”—but his only answer was a snore. H then rolled over, my
neck feeling as ifitwere in a horse-collar, and suddeniy felt a

slight scratch, Throwing aside the counterpane, there tay the tomahawk
sleeping by the savage's side, asifit were a haichet-faced baby. A

pretty pickle, truly, thought f abed here in a strange house in the

broad day, with a cannibal and a tomahawk! “Queequeg!—in the name of
goodness, Queequeg. wakel" Atlength, by dint of much wriggling, and

foud and incessant expostulations upon the unbecomingness ofhis
‘hugging 2 fellow male in that matrimonial sort of style, | succeeded in
extracting a grunt; and presently, he drew back his arm, shook himset

aif over fike a Newfoundland dog just from the water, and sat up ia,

bed, stifas a pike-stalf ooking at me, and rubbing his eyes as if

he did not altogether remember how | came to be there, though a dim
consciousness of knowing something about me scemed slowly dawning over
‘him, Meanwhile, Hay quietly eyeing him, having no serious misgivings
‘now, and bent upon narrowly observing so curious a creature. When, at
fast, his mind seemed made up touching the character af his bedfetiow,
and he became, as itwere, reconciled to the fact, he jumped out upon

the floor, and by certain signs and sounds gave me to understand that,
sTitpleaged me, he would dress first and then feave me to dress

afterwards, leaving the whole apartment to myself. Thinks , Queequeg,
‘under the circumstances, this is a very civilized overture; bul, the

‘ruth is, these savages have an innale sense of delicacy, say what you

will itis marvetious how essentially polite they are. ! pay tis

particular compliment to Queequeg, because he treated me with so much
‘ivilty and consideration, while was guilty of great rudeness;

staring at him from the bed, and watching ail his toilette motions: for

the time my curiosity getting the better of my breeding. Nevertheless,

‘a man ike Queequeg you don't see every day, he and his ways were well
worth unusual regarding
