circumspecty afiding along this magic zone. The sumis, that at
particular seasons within that breadth and along that path, migrating
whales may with great confidence be tooked for.

And hence not only at substantiated times, upon well knowin separate
feeding-grounds, could Ahab hope to encounter his prey; but in crossing
the widest expanses of water between those grounds he could, by his
art, so place and time himself on his way, as even then not to be

wholly without prospect of a meeting.

‘There was a circumstance which al fst sight seemed fo entangle his,
delirious but sil methodical scheme. But not so in the reality,

peshaps. Though the gregarious sperm whates have their regular seasons
{or particular grounds, yet in general you cannot conclude that the

‘nerds which haunted such and such a latitude or longitude this year,
say, will tu out to be identically the same with those that were

found there the preceding season; though there are peculiar and
‘unguastionable instances where the contrary of this has proved true. in
general, the same remark, only within a fess wide fii, applies to the
soliaries and hermits among the matured, aged sperm whales. So that
though Moby Dick had in a former year been seen, for example, on what
is called the Seycheile ground in the Indian ocean, or Volcano Bay on
the Japanese Coast, yetit did not follow, that were the Pequod to

visit either of those spots at any subsequent corresponding season, she
would infatibty encounter him there. So, too, with some other feeding
grounds, where he had al times reveated himseif. But ail these seemed
only his casual stopping-places and ocean-inns, so to speak, not his
places of prolonged abode. And where Anab's chances of accomplishing
his abject have hitherto been spoken of, allusion has only been made to
whatever way-side, anievedent, extra prospects were his, ore a
particular set time or place were attained, when all possibilities

would become probabilities, and, as Ahab fondly thought, every
possibility the next thing to a certainty. That partioular set time and

place were conjoined in the one technical phrase—the
Season-on-the-Line. For there and then, for several consecullve years,
Moby Dick had been periodically descried, lingering in those waters for
awhile, as the sun, in its annual round, folters for a predicted

interval in any one sign of the Zodiac. There itwas, too, that most of

the deadly encountere with the white whale had taken piace: there the
waves were storied with hie deeds; there alsa was that tragic spat

where the manomaniac old man had found the awful motive to his
vengeance. Butin the cautious comprehensiveness and untoitesing
vigilance with which Ahab threw his brooding sout into this unfattering
hunt, he would not permit himseif to rest all his hopes upon the one
crowning fact above mentioned, however flattering it might be to those
‘hopes; nor in the sizeplessness of his vow could he go tranquilize his
unguiet heart as fo postpone ail intervening quest.

Now, the Pequod had sailed from Nantucket at the very beginning of the
Season-on-the-Ling. No possibte endeavor then could enabie her
