top of his head? Avast, will ye

“Stand clear of the tackle!" cried a voice fike the bursting of a
rocket

Aimost in the same instant, with a thunder-boom, the enormous mass
dropped into the sea, ike Niagara's Table-Rock inio the whirlpool; the
suddenly seieved hull rolted away from it, o far down her glittering

‘copper, and all caught their breath, as haif swinging—now over the

sailors’ heads, and now over the water—Daggoo, through a thick mist of
spray, was dimly beheld clinging to the pendulous tackles, while poor,
buried-alive Tashiego was sinking utterly down to the bottom of the

sea! But hardly had the blinding vapor cleared away, when a naked

figure with a boarding-sword in his hand, was for one ewift moment seen
‘povering over the bulwarks, The next, a loud splash announced that my
brave Queequeg had dived to the rescue, One packed rush was made to the
side, and every eye counted every ripple, as moment followed moment,

‘and no sign af either the sinker of the diver could be seen. Some hands
‘now jumped into a boat alongside, and pushed a tite off fom the

ship,

“Hatha? oried Daggoo. ail at once, from his now quiet, swinging perch
overhead: and looking further off from the side, we saw an arm thaust
‘upright from the blue waves: a sight strange fo see, as an arm thrust
forth from the grass over a grave

“Both! both!ttis both’ cried Daggoo again with a joyful shout: and
‘soon after, Queequea was seen boidiy striking out with one hand, and
with the other clutching the tong hair ofthe indian. Drawn into the
waiting boat, they were quickly brought to the deck; but Tashtego was
tong in coming fo, and Queequeg did not look very brisk,

Now, how had this noble rescue been accomplished? Why, diving after the
slowly descending head, Queequeg with his keen sword had made side
tunges near its bottom, so as to scuttle a targe hole there; then

‘dropping his sword, had thrust his ‘ong arm far inwards and upwards,
and so hauled out poor Tash by the head. He averred, that upon frst
‘trrusting in for him, a leg was presented: but well knowing that that

‘was not as it ought fo be, and might occasion great trouble-—he had
thrust back the leg, and by a dexterous heave and toss, had wrought 8
somerset upan the indian, so that with the next tial, he came forth in

the good ofd way—head foremost. As for the great head itself thatwas
doing as well as could be expected.

And thus, through the courage and great skill in obsteties of
‘Queequeg, the detiverance, or rather, delivery of Tashtego, was
successfully accomptished, in the teeth, too, af the most untoward and
apparently hopeless impediments; which is a lesson by no means to be
forgotten. Midwifery should be taughtin the same course with fencing
‘and boxing, riding and rowing,
