Lying-in Hospital.

I partly surmise also, that this wicked charge against whalers
may he

likewise imputed to the existence on the coast of Greenland, in
former

times, of a Dutch village called Schmerenburgh or Smeerenberg,
which

latter name is the one used by the learned Fogo Von Siack, in his
great

work on Smells, a text-book on that subject. As its name imports
(smeer, fat; berg, to put up), this village was founded in order
to

afford a place for the blubber of the Dutch whale fleet to be
tried

out, without being taken home to Holland for that purpose. It was
a

collection of furnaces, fat-kettles, and oi1 sheds; and when the
works

were in full operation certainly gave forth no very pleasant
savor. But

all this is quite different with a South Sea Sperm Whaler; which
ina

voyage of four years perhaps, after completely filling her hold
with

oil, does not, perhaps, consume fifty days in the business of
boiling

out; and in the state that it is casked, the oi1 is nearly
scentless.

The truth is, that living or dead, if but decently treated,
whales as a

species are by no means creatures of i11 odor; nor can whalemen
be

recognised, as the people of the middle ages affected to detect a
Jew

in the company, by the nose. Nor indeed can the whale possibly he
otherwise than fragrant, when, as a general thing, he enjoys such
high

health; taking abundance of exercise; always out of doors;
though, it

is true, seldom in the open air. I say, that the motion of a
Sperm

Whales crew;

an event most lamentable; and which ended in providing the
sometimes

madly merry and predestinated craft with a living and ever
accompanying

prophecy of whatever shattered sequel might prove her own.

Now, in the whale ship, it is not every one that goes in the
boats.

Some few hands are reserved called ship-keepers, whose province
it is

to work the vessel while the boats are pursuing the whale. As a
