one ticking of a watch, and every instant seemed on the point of
snapping into splinters. Nothing was done, and nothing seemed
capable

of being done; those on deck rushed towards the bows, and stood
eyeing

the boom as if it were the lower jaw of an exasperated whale. In
the

midst of this consternation, Queequeg dropped deftly to his
knees, and

crawling under the path of the boom, whipped hold of a rope,
secured

one end to the bulwarks, and then flinging the other like a
lasso,

caught it round the boom as it swept over his head, and at the
next

jerk, the spar was that way trapped, and ail was safe. The
schooner was

run into the wind, and while the hands were clearing away the
stern

boat, Queequeg, stripped to the waist, darted from the side with
a long

Living arc of a leap. For three minutes or more he was seen
swimming

like a dog, throwing his long arms straight out before him, and
by

turns revealing his brawny shoulders through the freezing foam. I
looked at the grand and glorious fellow, but saw no one to he
saved.

The greenhorn had gone down. Shooting himself perpendicularly
from the

water, Queequeg, now took an instantfresh waters a mutual, joint-
stock world, in all meridians. We

cannibals must help these Christians.a mere hillock, and elbow of
sand; ali beach, without a background. There is more sand there
than

you would use in twenty years as a substitute for blotting paper.
Some

gamesome wights will tell you that they have to plant weeds
there, they

dons walk a prairie; that they wear quicksand

shoes, something like Laplander snow-shoes; that they are so shut
up,

belted about, every way inclosed, surrounded, and made an utter
isiand

of by the ocean, that to their very chairs and tables small clams
will

sometimes be found adhering, as to the backs of sea turtles. But
these

extravaganzas only show that Nantucket is no Tilinois.

Look now at the wondrous traditional story of how this island was
settied by the red-men. Thus goes the legend. In olden times an

eagle
swooped down upon the New England coast, and carried off an
