largely abound, their wondrous voracity can be at times
considerably

diminished, by vigorously stirring them up with sharp whaling-
Spades, a

procedure notwithstanding, which, in some instances, only seems
to

tickle them into still greater activity. But it was not thus in
the

present case with the Pequods disembowelments, but like flexible
bows, bent round, and

bit their own; till those entrails seemed swallowed over and over
again

by the same mouth, to be oppositely voided by the gaping wound.
Nor was

this all. It was unsafe to meddle with the corpses and ghosts of
these

creatures. A sort of generic or Pantheistic vitality seemed to
durk in

their very joints and bones, after what might be called the
individual

life had departed. Killed and hoisted on deck for the sake of his
skin,

one of these sharks almost took poor Queequegs spread hand; and
in general shape,

corresponds to the garden implement after which it is named; only
its

sides are perfectly flat, and its upper end considerably narrower
than

the lower. This weapon is always kept as sharp as possible; and
when

being used is occasionally honed, just like a razor. In its
socket, a

stiff pole, from twenty to thirty feet long, is inserted for a
handle.

said the savage,
agonizingly lifting his hand up and down;

CHAPTER 67. Cutting In.

It was a Saturday night, and such a Sabhath as followed! Ex
officio

professors of Sabbath breaking are all whalemen. The ivory Pequod
was

turned into what seemed a shamble; every sailor a butcher. You
would

have thought we were offering up ten thousand red oxen to the sea
gods.

In the first place, the enormous cutting tackles, among other
ponderous
things comprising a cluster of blocks generally painted green,

and
